The first full moon of northern spring lit up the sky this morning in a phenomenon known as the 'Pink Moon.'
Stunning photographs captured the nearly-full moon as it rose close to Jupiter at dawn.
The stunning spectacle is expected to reach its peak tonight at 20:00 BST in the UK and at 19:04 ET on the US east coast, but many spotted it at dawn this morning before it reached its fullest phase. 
April's full moon, also known as a 'Pink Moon', sets just before dawn above the towers of the Second Severn Crossing between England and Wales over the Bristol Channel	+13
April's full moon, also known as a 'Pink Moon', sets just before dawn above the towers of the Second Severn Crossing between England and Wales over the Bristol Channel
THE 'PINK' MOON 

The Pink Moon isn't actually pink.

Instead, it is named for the flowering of the brightly-coloured herb 'moss pink,' which typically coincides with its arrival.

It's also known as the Grass Moon and the Egg Moon.

In the Southern Hemisphere, where it's not autumn, it's called the Hunter's Moon, according to EarthSky.

Rather than a rose-hued moon, April's full moon appeared bright white, like any other.

The Pink Moon isn't pink, but instead earns its name from the flowering of the brightly-coloured herb 'moss pink,' which typically coincides with its arrival. 
In the Northern Hemisphere, the April full moon lines up with the blooming of one of spring's earliest-flowering plants – wild ground phlox (or, moss pink).
The name was coined by Native Americans who name each full moon to help them keep track of time. 
Native Americans have a name for the full moon of every month in the calendar, including Wolf Moon for January, Snow Moon for February and Worm Moon for March.
May's full moon is called Flower Moon, Strawberry Moon is for June, Buck Moon is for July and Sturgeon Moon is for August.
In September, there is a Harvest Moon, Hunter's Moon is in October, Beaver Moon is in November and Cold Moon is in December. 
The Pink Moon is also known as the Grass Moon and the Egg Moon.
The spectacle is cherished by many as it marks the start of festivals and holidays across the world.


Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-4399164/Pink-moon-set-light-sky-tonight.html#ixzz4dx15dfbJ 
Follow us: @MailOnline on Twitter | DailyMail on Facebook
