The space agency will announce the major development as well as outline plans for future space explorations and the search for life elsewhere in the universe.

The press conference will be held at 7pm on Thursday, April 13, with the likes of Thomas Zurbuchen, associate administrator, Science Mission Directorate at NASA Headquarters, Jim Green, director, Planetary Science Division at NASA Headquarters, and Mary Voytek, astrobiology senior scientist, joining the briefing.

A press release from NASA reads: “NASA will discuss new results about ocean worlds in our solar system from the agency’s Cassini spacecraft and the Hubble Space Telescope.”

It adds: “These new discoveries will help inform future ocean world exploration – including NASA’s upcoming Europa Clipper mission planned for launch in the 2020s – and the broader search for life beyond Earth.”

nasa solar systemGETTY
Nasa is to announce new discoveries
RELATED ARTICLES
MINI ICE AGE FEARS: No solar activity for TWO WEEKS sparks concern
Scientists make MAJOR anti-ageing breakthrough
solar systemGETTY
“Nasa will discuss new results about ocean worlds in our solar system"
Former NASA employee says he saw alien and NASA employees meet
Play Video
Naturally, people were excited by the admittedly small possibility that Nasa has found alien life.

One wrote on Twitter: “Alien oceans in Earth's solar system? #NASA has a new announcement this week!”

exoplanetGETTY
Nasa will also discuss their plans for future destinations
Another added: “NASA Is Ready to Announce Alien Life: All Protocols Are Set Up.”

NASA has made huge strides in space exploration and more specifically the search for alien life in recent years.

The Best Space Photos of the Year
Fri, March 24, 2017
Stunning imagery taken from Space
	
	
	
	
PLAY SLIDESHOW

1 of 16

January 15, 2016: ESA astronaut Tim Peake takes part in his 4 hour 43 minute spacewalk to replace a failed power regulator and install cabling for the International Space Station
Jan. 30, 2016: London at midnight
June 30, 2016: The Richat Structure or “Bulls Eye” in Mauritania
Aug. 19, 2016: Expedition 48 Commander Jeff Williams (shown here) and Flight Engineer Kate Rubins of NASA successfully installed the first of two international docking adapters during a five hour and 58-minute spacewalk
September 4, 2016: Orbiting above eastern North America, a crew member on the International Space Station photographed a dense pattern of eddies in the Gulf of St. Lawrence
Sept. 17, 2016: The southern tip of Italy is visible in this image taken by the Expedition 49 crew aboard the International Space Station. The brightly lit city of Naples can be seen in the bottom section of the image
Highlights for the space agency include discovering water on Mars, which massively increases the chance of finding life on the Red Planet.

However, earlier this year it announced that it has found an entire solar system which has at least three Earth-like planets, which could be home to alien species.
