  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Asylum seekers and the poorest parts of the UK are being let down
Asylum seekers in Glasgow. Picture taken 8 March 2010
[ ] Glasgow is the local authority with the highest number of asylum seekers in
the UK. Picture taken 8 March 2010. Photograph: Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Images
Asylum seekers and the poorest parts of the UK are being let down
Tuesday 11 April 2017 18.52 BST Last modified on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
“Most refugees sent to the poorest parts of the UK” (Front page headline,
10 April). Here are suggested headlines for the remainder of the week: “Lowest
life expectancy in the poorest parts of the UK”; “Proportionately highest
levels of indirect taxation…”; “Worst maintained private and public housing…”;
“Highest levels of prescription drugs…”; “Highest attendance at A&E
departments...”; “Least investment in schools…”; “Highest number
Condescending notions such as “responsibilisation” are used to deflect the
political, economic, structural dynamics and suffering of poverty. Zero-hours
contracts are recast as “flexible and adaptive working”; low-waged health
support workers are declined travel time; part-time contracts without holiday
pay or security underpin; essential services are cut to the bone. The list is
On estates of poverty-induced resentment, the comparatively few refugees and
asylum seekers entering Britain are warehoused and managed by private,
profit-driven companies with, at best, questionable track records – G4S and
Serco to name but two. The lack of coherent, integrated, humanitarian policies
and interventions is the outworking of inadequately funded public authorities,
reflecting a cynical and divisive betrayal by central government of those most
in need, whether citizens, refugees or asylum seekers.
• I was saddened but not surprised by your front page. An asylum seeker living
with me has told me how he was initially sent to a hostel in Manchester after
his arrival in Kent, but when he put in his asylum application, he was
transferred to a house in a remote suburb of Liverpool. Unable to afford public
transport, he had to walk for an hour or more to shops or to meet people: “it
The charities I have been in contact with tell me there are enough potential
hosts to house all the asylum seekers they are dealing with, but they lack the
resources to assess their suitability. Why can’t the government work with these
charities to enable more asylum seekers to be housed with people who are keen
to help them learn English and find out more about life in the UK?
• Yvette Cooper and the home affairs select committee are absolutely right to
criticise the government’s policy on asylum seekers, and in particular its
reliance on private sector providers of accommodation. In Newcastle some years
ago, one such provider housed Iranian and Iraqi refugees in the same premises.
More recently, the change from the provision of accommodation and support by
Your Homes Newcastle (a public sector body leading management of the issue in
the north-east) to G4S and its subcontractor Jomast, coupled with a reduction
in funding, has effectively led to the disappearance of support services.
Treating the issue as a matter of housing alone is unsatisfactory, both for the
asylum seekers and refugees and for the other residents of what tend to be the
most disadvantaged areas of towns and cities in the least prosperous parts of
• Your front page says the home affairs select committee is calling for changes
to the “appalling” system of sending these hapless people to the poorest parts
of the country. Since government policy for their dispersal has been framed
around the inability and unwillingness of local councils to provide education,
health and other services for them, the outcome of location in impoverished
ghettoes is inevitable. These same blanket policies mean that private
hospitality, widely and generously offered, is effectively prevented from being
taken up. Thus a Kindertransport scheme was made impossible.
Keith Vaz, as its previous chairman, presided over a select committee on the
Shaw report, which highlighted many of the shortcomings in government policy
The Home Office claims the UK has a proud history of granting asylum to those
who need our protection. We now seem to be at the end of history.
• Zoe Stewart (Passport checks for patients is an abandonment of NHS principles
, theguardian.com, 7 April) is right to say that health tourism costs the NHS a
relatively small amount (0.3% of a £130bn annual budget or some £330m). That is
still the cost of a new hospital, so not insignificant, but she misses the
The NHS, social housing and all of our public infrastructure were built by
previous generations, out of their taxes, with an expectation that not only
they but their descendants would benefit. The reason that “health tourism”
sticks in the craw is that it breaks the implicit promise of “social goods”
being passed on from generation to generation. People do have a sense of
ownership over great public enterprises, and with that there is resentment of
newcomers who are perceived as not having contributed to the development of the
“common weal”, and who are then perceived as taking their jobs, houses and
Proclaiming the “universality” of rights or benefits, while attractive as a
principle, only really works in stable, homogenous societies. Immigration, of
any variety, can dent that sense of communal solidarity, and hence “cracking
down on health tourism”, an important though relatively minor financial
amelioration, has a wider and justifiable significance.
• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com
• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
