  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Bold business stunts: from hiring a donkey to hacking the news
Entrepreneurs must sometimes be creative to beat the competition. We speak to
Sugru founder Jane Ni Dhulchaointigh hired a donkey to get the attention of B&Q
Bold business stunts: from hiring a donkey to hacking the news
Entrepreneurs must sometimes be creative to beat the competition. We speak to
Friday 7 April 2017 12.00 BST Last modified on Friday 7 April 2017 14.34 BST
When Jane ni Dhulchaointigh invented Sugru, a mouldable glue, back in 2009 she
set high expectations. “Our dream for Sugru is that it becomes something like
Sellotape or Blu-Tack, which is in everyone’s kitchen drawer,” she says. With
this in mind, ni Dhulchaointigh knew she had to quickly build Sugru’s profile.
When the brand scored B&Q as a stockist in 2011, she came up with an unorthodox
“The panic set in – ‘What if nobody buys it?’,” she recalls. “And so we just
thought ‘OK, let’s rally the community’.” Her husband joked that she should
tell people to get their arse, or ass, down to B&Q. This raised a laugh among
the Sugru team, and they ran with it. They hired a donkey and, without getting
permission from the store, pitched up at a B&Q with the animal and a camera to
“The store staff found it hilarious,” says ni Dhulchaointigh. The video shows
the Sugru founder with the donkey in front of the store, and the film is
spliced with makeshift visuals telling the brand’s story.
Charisma isn't elusive, train yourself to become magnetic
The risk paid off – among the video’s 20,000-plus viewers was Pascal Cagni, a
non-exec on the board of B&Q owner Kingfisher. “He forwarded it by email to the
rest of the board and he was like ‘Well done for being so creative, this is
Sugru hadn’t run the idea past its new stockist first, for obvious reasons.
“Who’s going to say yes to a donkey turning up in the car park of a B&Q? We
just went ahead and did it.” But Cagni’s approval put Sugru firmly on B&Q’s
radar as a supplier to nurture, and five years on it’s still one of the brand’s
biggest stockists. “It all turned out well,” says ni Dhulchaointigh. “We’d do
Luke Hilton is a former musician who runs a business making guitar pedals and
amplifiers. He started his company Stone Deaf in 2011, and went straight to his
target audience by sending out samples to bands. Queens of the Stone Age
frontman Josh Homme, Hilton’s hero, got first dibs.
The pedal was met with a request for a second, which Hilton arranged to hand
deliver to Homme when Queens of the Stone Age played at Leeds festival. “All
naive, I thought I’m going to get to meet him,” he recalls. When he arrived at
Leeds, one of the band’s staff texted to say Homme could no longer meet him. “I
thought, ‘No, that’s not fair, I’ve worked my arse off with this, that wasn’t
Soon after Hilton and his now wife spotted the band’s drummer, Joey Castillo,
in the crowd. “I went over – I was nervous but my wife said, ‘You’ve got
nothing to lose, just go for it’.” It worked, Castillo chaperoned Hilton
backstage to Homme. “I was a bit starstruck,” says Hilton.
Homme has continued to use Hilton’s pedals and, through word of mouth, Stone
Deaf has also supplied the Red Hot Chilli Peppers, the Strokes and Guns N’
But Homme’s approval has continued to be the biggest driver of sales. “[Our]
type of pedal is so integral to his tone,” says Hilton. “There are loads of
videos on YouTube on how to sound like Josh, and they’re using a [Stone Deaf]
pedal.” Stone Deaf has grown around 30% annually since launching in 2011,
thanks, in part, to Homme. Hilton says: “It’s usually six people deep around
these rock stars, so I was very lucky, but if you don’t try you don’t get.”
Jo Leah, founder of the Little Big Agency, and her former business partner were
running their PR firm from a “cupboard” when they secured a meeting with
Domino’s. The office in a local business centre was all they could afford. “If
we had stretched our arms we probably could have touched both walls, it was
    Every entrepreneurial business needs a judo move
Worried by the prospect of a big brand being put off by her business’s meagre
surroundings, Leah hired two more rooms in the business centre, got reception
to pretend they were working for her agency and borrowed computer monitors to
put on desks, coats for the backs of chairs, industry magazines and office
plants. The architect firm in a nearby office even offered to pretend to be the
Leah says: “I told the people in the other offices what we were doing. It was a
time when there were quite a lot of entrepreneurial startups, so people quite
While Leah felt confident that her firm could meet Domino’s PR needs, she was
concerned about its marketing director’s first impressions “I thought his
expectations of an agency were going to be quite huge.”
But, with the stage set, they welcomed their guest and explained the absence of
staff by saying the rest of the team was at another meeting. “It was a
confident blag, but I did think we could do a good job.” Whatever the marketing
director’s thoughts about the office set-up, the overall impression won Leah’s
agency a contract. “It was massively pivotal to our business success,” says
Leah. “Every entrepreneurial business needs a judo move, that was ours.”
Tom Cridland started his eponymous fashion brand in 2014 using a government
start-up loan. He wasn’t experienced in the retail industry, but he did have a
Since launch, Cridland has focused on finding a fresh PR spin for his business.
First he got celebrities, including Leonardo DiCaprio, to wear his label’s
trousers. Then, he came up with the idea of producing long-lasting clothes,
From celebrity to sustainability to education, he’s always finding new angles
to help pitch his business to journalists. He admits this approach hasn’t been
to everyone’s taste. “I’ve had a relentless attitude; I’ve definitely ruffled a
His persistence alone has made headlines. Last August, Financial Times tech
columnist Jonathan Margolis wrote about Cridland’s tactics, dubbing him a
But such notoriety hasn’t dampened Cridland’s persistence. He says: “I give
journalists a nudge. Don’t assume if you haven’t heard anything there is no
interest.” Following his own advice brought about what Cridland considers one
of his most important pieces of coverage – a BBC article on sustainable
fashion. After numerous pitches he eventually stuck in the mind of one
journalist. The resulting article saw a “huge spike in sales”.
Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more
advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
