  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Catastrophe looms at ports after Brexit, shipping industry warns
UK Chamber of Shipping predicts problem across Europe unless frictionless
[ ] Trucks entering Dover, the busiest truck port in the UK. Photograph: Graham
Catastrophe looms at ports after Brexit, shipping industry warns
UK Chamber of Shipping predicts problem across Europe unless frictionless
Wednesday 12 April 2017 11.15 BST Last modified on Wednesday 12 April 2017 
The UK is facing an “absolute catastrophe” if it does not sort out a
“frictionless and seamless” border at Dover and other ports, the shipping
The UK Chamber of Shipping, which represents 170 freight ships, tankers and
cruise liners, has called on governments across Europe to urgently grasp the
challenge, arguing that a problem for the UK will also be a problem for ports
“I think the UK government gets it, but I am not so sure other countries do,”
“It is a massive problem that we need to get solved. It is in the political
gift to have a frictionless or not have a frictionless border. It is a human
At a media briefing on Wednesday, the chamber said the issue was not the
prospect of tariffs being introduced if the UK quits the European customs union
as these could be processed electronically. It was, rather, the question of
customs checks on either side of the borders between the UK and the continent,
He said Dublin would probably grind to a halt if customs checks were introduced
at Dublin Port or Holyhead in north Wales, which handles 400,000 trucks every
year delivering food and other goods to shops and suppliers in the UK and the
The freight and haulage industry and Eurotunnel warned earlier this year that a
port such as Dover, the busiest truck port in the UK, could face gridlock of up
to 30 miles if customs checks were introduced after the UK left the European
The port handles 2.6m trucks a year while Eurotunnel caters for another 1.6m a
year at its Le Shuttle gateway a few miles inland.
In the summer of 2015, a French ferry workers’ strike led to more than 7,000
trucks backed up the motorway almost as far as Maidstone. With as many as
16,000 trucks a day using Dover, the potential for a repeat of that episode
Non-EU trucks at the moment have to go through customs checks in Dover and it
can take 20 minutes for paperwork to be cleared for each vehicle. If there are
problems with VAT or random customs checks, the truck can be delayed for hours,
“It can take up to an hour for a truck now, multiply that by 8,000 a day (the
number of lorries on a slow day) and you can see what happens. It is going to
be an absolute disaster for the ports and for our sector as well,” said
Post-Brexit customs gridlock could choke UK trade, experts warn
Michael Lux, a customs expert, told the Guardian in February that one elegant
solution would be to handle the customs checks in Calais where space is not an
issue, but this would require a political response.
Platten said ports such as Calais, Zeebrugge in Belgium and Dublin, had to be
“We don’t want anyone to win or lose in the Brexit negotiations because we
Passenger ferries will also be hit if there are delays. Platten said operators
such as Brittany Ferries, which relies on the UK for 80% of its traffic, were
growing concerned, along with P&O Ferries, Stena Line and logistics company
Platten said one solution may be customs checks “at the point of dispatch or
point of sale” but there was nowhere in the world with a customs model similar
A frictionless and seamless border is predicated on an electronic system that
would pre-clear “trusted traders” in and out of the UK.
However, 10 days ago it emerged Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs are not
confident they can deliver a new electronic system in time.
A group of influential MPs warned there would be a fivefold increase in customs
checks at Dover and other ports from 60m a year to 300m after Brexit.
HMRC admitted in correspondence to the Treasury select committee that it was no
longer sure it can deliver a new customs declaration system for Brexit Day.
Platten predicted cargo and passenger ferry sailings to and from Dover would
    Concerns as HMRC faces 'fivefold rise in customs checks' after Brexit
    Treasury committee says confidence in preparations has collapsed amid
    customs chiefs’ doubts that IT system will be ready
    Concerns as HMRC faces 'fivefold rise in customs checks' after Brexit
    Theresa May given stark warning about leaving customs union
    Exclusive: UK hard Brexit pullout risks big fall in GDP and trade gridlock
    Theresa May given stark warning about leaving customs union
    Getting to Europe on a budget: flight, ferry and car hire deals
    From cheap ferries heading for France and the Netherlands to mid-summer
    return flights to Mallorca from £78, here are some of the best offers
    Getting to Europe on a budget: flight, ferry and car hire deals
    Brexit will create 400,000 jobs? This is a fiction, as any economist will
    Change Britain’s wild claim is either deeply ignorant or deliberately
    misleading. Brexit is not getting the serious debate it needs
    Brexit will create 400,000 jobs? This is a fiction, as any economist will
      □ Drivers told to avoid Dover travel on 'Black Saturday'
        Drivers told to avoid Dover travel on 'Black Saturday'
      □ Holidaymakers heading to Dover urged to take plenty of food and water
        Holidaymakers heading to Dover urged to take plenty of food and water
      □ How to amuse yourself in a 14-hour queue at Dover
        How to amuse yourself in a 14-hour queue at Dover
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
