  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Developing nations' demands for better life must be met, says World Bank head
Jim Yong Kim says there is greater risk of war, terrorism and increased
migration if aspirations of poorer countries are not met
World Bank president Jim Yong Kim at a news conference in Berlin.
[ ] World Bank president Jim Yong Kim at a news conference in Berlin.
Developing nations' demands for better life must be met, says World Bank head
Jim Yong Kim says there is greater risk of war, terrorism and increased
migration if aspirations of poorer countries are not met
Tuesday 11 April 2017 18.54 BST First published on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
Failure to meet the internet-inspired aspirations of people in poor countries
runs the risk of creating the conditions for war, terrorism and increased
migration, the president of the World Bank has warned.
Speaking in London ahead of the Bank’s spring meeting next week, Jim Yong Kim
said an urgent development push was needed in order to meet the demands for a
better life by those in developing countries, increasingly aware through their
The Bank is particularly worried about recent low growth in Africa and Kim said
official aid money should be used to turn the billions of dollars provided by
western countries into trillions of dollars of investment from the private
Technology can empower children in developing countries - if it's done right
“Aspirations, linked to opportunity, can breed dynamism and inclusive,
sustainable economic growth,” Kim said, in a speech at the London School of
Economics on Tuesday. “But I worry that if there’s no opportunity to achieve
these aspirations, frustration may well lead to fragility, conflict, violence
“We’re already seeing worrying trends – 2 billion people live in countries
affected by fragility, conflict and violence. After a period of decline since
the end of the Cold War, violent conflicts have increased rapidly since 2010.
Terrorism incidents have increased by 120% since 2012.”
Kim said that an individual’s happiness was linked not just to their own income
but also to the incomes of others. As internet coverage had expanded, the
comparison was increasingly with people in rich countries.
“Keeping up with the Joneses used to be about keeping up with your neighbours.
But it’s no longer only about the Joneses living around you – because of
connectivity, the Joneses could be anywhere in the world.”
Kim said creating the right conditions for the private sector to invest was
vital if the world was to meet the ambitious sustainable development goals by
The World Bank president believes that too much official aid has been spent on
projects that the private sector could finance, and that instead of picking
“low hanging fruit” official development assistance should be spent in more
He said the top priority should be to “systematically de-risk countries to
enable private sector financing, while at the same time ensuring that these
investments benefit poor countries and poor people. We should do this by
crowding in the private sector whenever possible.”
Can technology free developing countries from light poverty?
Kim added that he wanted a “win-win” outcome, where the trillions of dollars
earning little interest were used to fund projects such as solar power and
transport infrastructure. Investors looking for more lucrative opportunities
should be mobilised to help meet the “exploding aspirations” of people all over
“This is a fundamental shift in our conception of who we are,” Kim said. “For
too long, our first thought was how can we get the loan or the grant out of the
door? But that’s often not what’s best for poor people and poor countries, and
it’s not what’s best for the world. We need to have a different and difficult
conversation about how we approach development finance.”
He singled out climate change as an area where urgent action was needed. He
said time was running out and joint public-private action on both mitigating
the impact of climate change and adapting to the changing environment was
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
