  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
It was DFS customer service that didn’t measure up
We agreed a restock fee, but when the sofa didn’t fit and we needed help it
Key move… Get the measure of a new sofa before ordering.
[ ] Key move… Get the measure of a new sofa before ordering. Photograph: Alamy
It was DFS customer service that didn’t measure up
We agreed a restock fee, but when the sofa didn’t fit and we needed help it
We read the case you covered in June 2016 whereby a furniture retailer’s
promise of a “restock” charge at an agreed amount was rescinded after the
In January we bought a sofa from the Tottenham Court Road branch of DFS in
London. It was agreed with the assistant sales manager that a restock fee of
£90, paid in the form of a deposit, would be retained by DFS should the sofa
need to be returned. We were moving into a new house and didn’t have the
measurements on us, so were willing to take this risk. The sofa was delivered
but it didn’t fit. We waited for five days while DFS retained the sofa and
money with no communication, then we filed a complaint on its website which it
ignored. When I finally got through to the salesman I was assured the restock
option was available. Over the next few days we received a confusing string of
offers regarding various restock fees or the requirement to buy a new sofa,
etc. We eventually agreed to a restock fee of 20%, or £80, only to find out the
DFS doesn’t communicate in writing, so we have refused to speak over the phone
and are seeking to dissolve the contract due to its misleading actions. We are
ready for a long disagreement and would be prepared to go to a small claims
court due to the well-documented nature of the DFS sales tactics.
The issue has also been forwarded to Trading Standards as a result of advice
So-called “restocking” fees cover the cost of returning items – typically 10%
for bulkier items like furniture or household appliances – but are not without
controversy because it’s not always clear when they can be levied and at what
level. But if you are buying any item of furniture it is vital to double check
DFS has issued a full refund for £454 (which you have accepted) on the grounds
there was some “miscommunication”. It says: “We take customer service extremely
seriously. We have arranged for the sofa to be returned at no charge. This is
not standard policy as it is the responsibility of the customer to measure
their space prior to ordering. The situation has been resolved to the
We welcome letters but cannot answer individually. Email us at 
consumer.champions@theguardian.com or write to Consumer Champions, Money, the
Guardian, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. Please include a daytime phone number
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
