  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Finally, a breakthrough alternative to growth economics – the doughnut
Instead of growth at all costs, a new economic model allows us to thrive while
[ ] ‘Billions of people still live in the hole in the middle’: a street boy
collects stones in Dhaka, Bangladesh. Photograph: Jan MoellerHansen/
Finally, a breakthrough alternative to growth economics – the doughnut
Instead of growth at all costs, a new economic model allows us to thrive while
Wednesday 12 April 2017 06.00 BST Last modified on Wednesday 12 April 2017 
So what are we going to do about it? This is the only question worth asking.
But the answers appear elusive. Faced with a multifaceted crisis – the capture
of governments by billionaires and their lobbyists, extreme inequality, the
rise of demagogues, above all the collapse of the living world – those to whom
we look for leadership appear stunned, voiceless, clueless. Even if they had
The most they tend to offer is more economic growth: the fairy dust supposed to
make all the bad stuff disappear. Never mind that it drives ecological
destruction; that it has failed to relieve structural unemployment or soaring
inequality; that, in some recent years, almost all the increment in incomes has
been harvested by the top 1%. As values, principles and moral purpose are lost,
Old economics is based on false ‘laws of physics’ – new economics can save us
You can see the effects in a leaked memo from the UK’s Foreign Office: “Trade
and growth are now priorities for all posts … work like climate change and
illegal wildlife trade will be scaled down.” All that counts is the rate at
which we turn natural wealth into cash. If this destroys our prosperity and the
We cannot hope to address our predicament without a new worldview. We cannot
use the models that caused our crises to solve them. We need to reframe the
problem. This is what the most inspiring book published so far this year has
In Doughnut Economics: Seven Ways to Think Like a 21st-Century Economist, Kate
Raworth of Oxford University’s Environmental Change Institute reminds us that
economic growth was not, at first, intended to signify wellbeing. Simon Kuznets
, who standardised the measurement of growth, warned: “The welfare of a nation
can scarcely be inferred from a measure of national income.” Economic growth,
he pointed out, measured only annual flow, rather than stocks of wealth and
Eight men own more than 3.6 billion people do: our economics is broken | Mark
Raworth points out that economics in the 20th century “lost the desire to
articulate its goals”. It aspired to be a science of human behaviour: a science
based on a deeply flawed portrait of humanity. The dominant model – “rational
economic man”, self-interested, isolated, calculating – says more about the
nature of economists than it does about other humans. The loss of an explicit
objective allowed the discipline to be captured by a proxy goal: endless
The aim of economic activity, she argues, should be “meeting the needs of all
within the means of the planet”. Instead of economies that need to grow,
whether or not they make us thrive, we need economies that “make us thrive,
whether or not they grow”. This means changing our picture of what the economy
The central image in mainstream economics is the circular flow diagram. It
depicts a closed flow of income cycling between households, businesses, banks,
government and trade, operating in a social and ecological vacuum. Energy,
materials, the natural world, human society, power, the wealth we hold in
common … all are missing from the model. The unpaid work of carers –
principally women – is ignored, though no economy could function without them.
Like rational economic man, this representation of economic activity bears
So Raworth begins by redrawing the economy. She embeds it in the Earth’s
systems and in society, showing how it depends on the flow of materials and
energy, and reminding us that we are more than just workers, consumers and
The embedded economy ‘reminds us that we are more than just workers and
consumers’. Source: Kate Raworth and Marcia Mihotich
This recognition of inconvenient realities then leads to her breakthrough: a
graphic representation of the world we want to create. Like all the best ideas,
her doughnut model seems so simple and obvious that you wonder why you didn’t
think of it yourself. But achieving this clarity and concision requires years
of thought: a great decluttering of the myths and misrepresentations in which
The diagram consists of two rings. The inner ring of the doughnut represents a
sufficiency of the resources we need to lead a good life: food, clean water,
housing, sanitation, energy, education, healthcare, democracy. Anyone living
within that ring, in the hole in the middle of the doughnut, is in a state of
deprivation. The outer ring of the doughnut consists of the Earth’s
environmental limits, beyond which we inflict dangerous levels of climate
change, ozone depletion, water pollution, loss of species and other assaults on
The area between the two rings – the doughnut itself – is the “ecologically
safe and socially just space” in which humanity should strive to live. The
purpose of economics should be to help us enter that space and stay there.
As well as describing a better world, this model allows us to see, in immediate
and comprehensible terms, the state in which we now find ourselves. At the
moment we transgress both lines. Billions of people still live in the hole in
the middle. We have breached the outer boundary in several places.
This model ‘allows us to see the state in which we now find ourselves’. Source:
Kate Raworth and Christian Guthier/The Lancet Planetary Health
An economics that helps us to live within the doughnut would seek to reduce
inequalities in wealth and income. Wealth arising from the gifts of nature
would be widely shared. Money, markets, taxation and public investment would be
designed to conserve and regenerate resources rather than squander them.
State-owned banks would invest in projects that transform our relationship with
the living world, such as zero-carbon public transport and community energy
schemes. New metrics would measure genuine prosperity, rather than the speed
Such proposals are familiar; but without a new framework of thought, piecemeal
solutions are unlikely to succeed. By rethinking economics from first
principles, Raworth allows us to integrate our specific propositions into a
coherent programme, and then to measure the extent to which it is realised.
I see her as the John Maynard Keynes of the 21st century: by reframing the
economy, she allows us to change our view of who we are, where we stand, and
Now we need to turn her ideas into policy. Read her book, then demand that
those who wield power start working towards its objectives: human prosperity
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
