  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
The Guardian - Back to home browse all sections close
The UK chocolate Easter egg market is worth around £200m, but it is
competitive. So small business owners are getting creative to stand out
Tuesday 11 April 2017 13.56 BST Last modified on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
    Every one of Lick the Spoon’s paisley eggs [ pictured, £24.95] is unique.
    Co-founder Matthew Short says they take around an hour to decorate,
    although they have had to scale back designs in the past. “The intricate
    work is our unique selling point. My wife [and co-founder] Diana is
    artistic and as a small business, you try to make the most of these things.
    We’ve been guilty in the past of coming up with beautiful designs and it
    takes so long to make them that we’ve almost come unravelled.”
    Father and daughter team, Kerr Dunlop and Flo Broughton, started Choc on
    Choc in 2003 in a village near Bath. Broughton says they are both
    self-taught chocolatiers and try to be slightly alternative. “Not everyone
    wants an egg,” she says. “I’m not a huge fan of fruit and I love chocolate
    so I make chocolate fruit. The coconut [ pictured, £20] has proven popular
    this year. I love that I can eat chocolate every day and it’s just part of
    Seven years ago, The Chocolate Society went bankrupt. Alasdair Garnsworthy,
    who was developing websites at the time, and his brother decided to buy the
    domain name, but also had to acquire half the company. “Once we owned it,
    we were getting calls from customers asking when we were going to make the
    truffles again,” Garnsworthy says. “We tried outsourcing to other
    manufacturers but the quality wasn’t there.” He is self-taught but says he
    enjoys being a chocolatier. “It’s completely consumed me, but I love it. It
    doesn’t feel like a job.” [ Pictured, dark chocolate egg, £29.50]
    Sarah Payne, founder and creative director of Cocoa Loco, started the
    business by selling brownies on eBay. Now, she and husband, Rory, have a
    team of 15 and a chocolate cafe in Horsham. “We’ve always taken the stand
    that we’re not going to supply supermarkets,” Payne says. “We’ve never
    wanted to. We can’t compete on price with those guys, but our chocolate is
    handmade, all organic and fairtrade. It’s hard to put into words what I
    love about working with chocolate. I feel blessed.” [ Pictured, marbled
    “It’s our tenth anniversary this year,” says Marc Demarquette, head
    chocolatier and owner of Demarquette. “We wanted to show we can still be
    creative.” Demarquette’s school run Easter egg [pictured, £30] takes an
    hour to decorate with gold-dusted fish. He says innovative designs keep
    them competitive: “You need to give value for money, but you need to be
    creative. You’ve got to create something you know the supermarkets can’t
    replicate.” He admits to “constantly nibbling away” while working. “Even
    when you have a bad day, you have a little nibble and think, actually it’s
    “Our avocado egg  [pictured, £49.50] seems to have captured people’s
    imagination this year,” Louise Mason, founder of Melt, says when asked
    which has proven to be their most popular egg. She adds there is growing
    demand for unique Easter eggs in the UK. “Customers are looking for
    something visually exciting and it’s an opportunity for chocolatiers to
    show their skill and creativity. My background as an art specialist has
    helped me look to art and design for inspiration.”
    Audrey’s Chocolates dates back to 1961, when William Pain, chocolatier to
    Fortnum & Mason, retired and opened a chocolate shop in the seaside town of
    Hove. Today’s head chocolatier and managing director, David Burns, says:
    “We have a team of three or four ladies who make all the flowers for the
    Easter eggs by hand [ pictured, £15.40 each]. Some of the staff have been
    with us for 30 years. Easter is the best time for me, it’s when Audrey’s
    Christina Purnell started Sweet Tree by Browns three years ago after she
    made a series of chocolate tree centrepieces for her daughter’s wedding.
    “This year the bunny trees [ pictured, from £24.99] are popular,” she says.
    “And the scotch egg has gone bananas. We’ll do a giant one next year.”
    Purnell has a team of eight and says they are constantly coming up with new
    ideas. The business has grown purely by word of mouth and is now stocked by
    12 online retailers. Purnell hopes to open her own shop one day.
    Chief chocolate adventurer, Anne Weyns, says the hardest part is not coming
    up with ideas, but making them happen. The packaging for Artisan du
    Chocolat’s balloon egg [pictured, £25] took three months to get right –
    Weyns wanted it to look like it was floating. Where do her ideas come from?
    “We don’t do market research, we don’t look at other people, we just think.
    There’s a famous Belgian author who says ‘when you write a book, you go
    into your own madness and you just hope people will come on the ride with
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
