  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Entrepreneurs have to push themselves but anxiety crept up on me
Tania Diggory was running a successful events company when she battled to
overcome uncertainty and anxiety. Now she helps other entrepreneurs cope
[ ] Tania Diggory says the attacks left her trembling, feeling nauseous and
Entrepreneurs have to push themselves but anxiety crept up on me
Tania Diggory was running a successful events company when she battled to
overcome uncertainty and anxiety. Now she helps other entrepreneurs cope
Wednesday 5 April 2017 07.00 BST Last modified on Wednesday 5 April 2017 
As an entrepreneur, you take big risks to make your dreams a reality. The
incredible opportunities that have come my way simply wouldn’t have happened if
I hadn’t stepped out of my comfort zone and pushed myself to explore my
At times though, this has come at a cost. Three years ago, during the second
year of running my events business, I started to experience anxiety attacks.
    We shouldn't feel ashamed of the struggles we go through to achieve our
    goals. It takes courage to live this lifestyle
It was the strangest feeling, I couldn’t make sense of it. I would wake up in
the middle of the night sweating, unable to breathe properly, my heart
hammering against my chest. I put it down to not feeling well until it happened
again a week later, while I was walking through Piccadilly Circus. I was left
trembling, feeling nauseous, and close to passing out.
I was aware of anxiety attacks but had no idea it felt that intense and could
creep up on you unexpectedly. Stress and major life transitions are common
causes and I’d been through both as a result of launching my business.
At the time, I’d felt anxious about managing relationships with challenging
clients and confronting issues head on. I’d felt uncertain about how my
business was going to unfold and what could happen if it didn’t develop as I’d
planned. I was concerned about building up steady work and a reliable income.
Like many entrepreneurs, I tried to do everything myself in the first year of
my startup and experienced burnout. This cost me two months out of work to
recover fully, both physically and psychologically.
But nine months down the line, things were starting to come together. We’d
succeeded in business for a second year and I was feeling euphoric. Yet in the
background I still struggled financially, having invested thousands of my own
savings into the business. I was on auto-pilot, getting through what needed to
be done, maintaining a professional front. Then, out of nowhere, I was hit by
The following year was spent learning how to manage these feelings while still
directing the events we were managing. I developed coping strategies, got to
grips with budgeting and experienced a return on my investment. I learned how
to build long-term partnerships and handle challenges. I found that if I kept
my mindset positive and open, opportunities would turn up. I learned to stay
focused on what mattered and kept the bigger picture in mind.
I’m pleased to say since then I’ve entered a much healthier place. In many
ways, anxiety is an inevitable state of being for an entrepreneur, but I had to
'Mental health is not only about darkness and depression'
When I now tell this story to many friends, they are shocked. I went through
that. They say I had seemed so calm and confident. When the anxiety attacks
happened, I told very few people. At the time, I didn’t want my friends or
clients to think I wasn’t in control. But I’ve since learned this happens to so
That was the inspiration for my new business, Calmer. It’s a platform that
supports creative entrepreneurs on their startup journey, and helps them learn
to manage anxiety and uncertainty. I have worked with many small business
owners who have been struggling with those feelings in silence, running their
Accept that you’re feeling anxious, without any self-judgement. Try not to
fight it and know that you will feel better once the feeling has passed.
Breathe slowly through your nose for four seconds, hold for two seconds, and
then release slowly through your mouth for eight seconds. Repeat until you
Every aspect of your business functions feels magnified to you because you’re
so invested in it. When you face a challenge or something unexpected, tell
Remind yourself that whatever happens is temporary. The result could eventually
lead to a better path, even if you can’t see it right now. Think about the big
picture and put your business goals into perspective.
You’ve chosen a lifestyle that can present challenges, yet also provide
incredible rewards. Remind yourself of all that you’ve achieved so far and
Take time each day to write down three things you’re grateful for in your
business, whether it’s something general or something that’s just happened.
It’s important for us to acknowledge positive outcomes in our busy lives. Most
importantly, remember there is an abundance of support available to you. You’re
Anxiety is something that can be overcome so you can thrive in your business.
I’m proof of that. It just takes practice. We should never feel ashamed of the
struggles we go through as entrepreneurs to achieve our goals. It takes courage
Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more
advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
