  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Flyer beware: why the customer isn't always right at 40,000ft
As a United Airlines passenger discovered recently, carriers have an
extraordinary range of powers – including the right to stop you travelling by
  • What Ryanair can teach United about customer service
United Airlines planes at San Francisco international airport
[ ] United Airlines planes at San Francisco international airport. Photograph:
Flyer beware: why the customer isn't always right at 40,000ft
As a United Airlines passenger discovered recently, carriers have an
extraordinary range of powers – including the right to stop you travelling by
  • What Ryanair can teach United about customer service
Tuesday 11 April 2017 18.03 BST Last modified on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
Airline passengers beware: when you buy a ticket, you are not only subjecting
yourself to the ordeals of security queues, baggage limits and turbulence. You
are also signing a near-40,000-word contract with a carrier that, in the
extreme case of a United Airlines passenger on 9 April, could have you hauled
off an overbooked aircraft – legally – as fellow customers and a global web
United Airlines shares plummet after passenger dragged from plane
Sunday’s extraordinary scenes on a Chicago, Illinois, to Louisville, Kentucky,
flight unfolded because of two regulations that are standard practice across
the industry. The first says a passenger can be barred from a flight if the
number of customers with tickets exceeds the number of seats. The second says
the captain can have you removed from the plane if you get emotional about it.
Air travel is a thicket of regulations and acronyms that, of course, have your
safety at heart. But there can be a thin line between guaranteeing your
security and dragging a seemingly innocent passenger off an overbooked
Flight overbooking is a phenomenon born of an industry that has struggled
historically to make money. Indeed, airlines lost nearly $50bn (£40bn) in the
past decade due to a combination of the 9/11 attacks, high oil prices and the
credit crunch. The sector is making money now, but profits are slender – $9.89
per passenger per journey – so taking a risk and selling 183 tickets for a
180-seater plane is worth it if three of those passengers fail to turn up and
you can pocket their fare expenditure as pure profit.
United Airlines passenger forcibly removed from overbooked flight – video.
“Airlines have very large fixed costs, so if they don’t fill the plane past a
certain point they will lose money. They know a certain proportion of these
passengers will not show, so they need to overbook to get to break-even or
better,” says Brian Pearce, the chief economist of the industry’s trade body,
The contract of carriage at United – the conditions to which you agree when you
buy a ticket – comes in at 37,000 words and embraces a range of arcane treaties
and rules, from the Montreal and Warsaw conventions to FARs, the US’s federal
According to one legal expert, United was acting within its rights as the
furore unfolded when it tried to find seats for four crew who needed to reach a
plane they were due to operate in Louisville. But such a calamitous collision
of passenger rights and airline prerogative is unlikely. “It is a very rare set
of circumstances,” says Kevin Clarke, a flight-delay specialist at UK law firm
Bott & Co. Pointing out that US airlines usually seek, and find, volunteers to
come off full flights in exchange for compensation, he adds: “It can be a
question of who backs down first.” In the case of this United flight, the
United’s contract of carriage is a joyless tour of one of the world’s most
over-regulated industries, where a minority of colourful terms – “acts of God”;
“civil commotions” – is crowded out by tightly worded legalese that will stop
you from taking any future journey for granted (at least on United). Under rule
five, covering “cancellations of reservations”, the passenger is warned that
all flights are “subject to overbooking”, which could result in the airline
being unable to put the passenger on the flight. In that scenario – please bear
with this – rule 25, on passengers denied boarding compensation, kicks in.
United Airlines CEO calls dragged passenger 'disruptive and belligerent'
Using language that inadvertently acknowledges the confrontation inherent in
the situation, it states that, if no passengers agree voluntarily to give up
their seats in exchange for compensation, “other passengers may be denied
boarding involuntarily”. Admittedly, there is recompense of about $1,000
available in this scenario, but it appears that the United passenger in this
case said no. This brought him head to head with the far tougher rule,
enshrined under the 1963 Tokyo Convention, that says the captain’s word is law
on an airliner and that he or she has “the ultimate authority” in dealing with
Rule 21 of United’s contract states that removal of a passenger may be
necessary if their conduct is deemed to be “disorderly, offensive, abusive or
violent”. It appears that the Louisville-bound passenger refused to give up his
seat voluntarily and the crew deemed his behaviour to be out of line, prompting
them to call in the security team at Chicago O’Hare international airport.
Compensation for delays caused by overbooking is guaranteed by EU law.
Speaking to the Guardian on the condition of anonymity, a senior pilot at a
major airline said: “The legal position is that you are not guaranteed to
travel and that you must obey any ‘reasonable commands’ of the crew. So,
“If it were me, I might have sought to promote a different solution [to allow]
the crew to travel. I suspect a crew was ‘out of hours’ [about to exceed its
working-hours limit] or sick or injured somewhere else on the network and the
decision was therefore a little late to send them on that aircraft. I think the
reputational damage from the events on Facebook will be significantly worse
Airline professionals are astonished that United’s overbooking procedures, in a
market where overbooking is prevalent, resulted in a passenger being allowed to
board before they were subsequently dragged off. John Strickland, an industry
consultant whose career has included managing the overbooking process at a
major airline, says carriers now have sophisticated computer systems that
calibrate whether flights can get away with being overbooked – right down to
the specific route, the time of day and whether demand will surge due to
holidays or special events. However, he adds: “It is not a perfect science,
which means when it goes wrong it needs to be handled sensitively.” This is
where United, a so-called full-service airline that tries to offer a level of
customer service superior to that of budget rivals, could suffer lasting
At the end of rule 25, United states: “UA shall not be liable for any punitive,
consequential or special damages arising out of or in connection with UA’s
failure to provide the passenger with confirmed reserved space.” Best of luck
An argument in favour of airline laws is what happens when they disappear. In
the UK, compensation for delays caused by overbooking is covered by a
regulation called EU 261/2004. According to industry lore, it came into
fruition when MEPs grew exasperated with being bumped from flights to Brussels
and Strasbourg. But airline passenger compensation could be one of the items of
red tape that will be lobbed into the Brexit bonfire come EU independence day.
One of the unintended consequences of severing links with Brussels, and
abandoning EU 261/2004, is that passengers flying from the UK could be exposed
“There is the possibility that we adopt the principles of the regulation [after
leaving the EU],” says Bott and Co’s Clarke. “But it is a possibility that we
will be left without that protection. The obligation to put you on an
alternative flight, the entitlement to compensation, that would not be there.
Another reason for Michael Gove and his fellow Brexiters to stick to the
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
