  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Judges reject US banker's claim to be a genius in divorce case
Randy Work must pay ex-wife Mandy Gray half of their fortune after the appeal
court backs initial ruling that his contribution to the marriage was not
Randy Work during the initial 2015 divorce proceedings at the high court.
[ ] Randy Work during the initial 2015 divorce proceedings at the high court.
Judges reject US banker's claim to be a genius in divorce case
Randy Work must pay ex-wife Mandy Gray half of their fortune after the appeal
court backs initial ruling that his contribution to the marriage was not
Tuesday 11 April 2017 14.07 BST Last modified on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
A US banker has been ordered to pay his ex-wife half of the family’s £140m
fortune, after the court of appeal rejected his claim that his “genius”
Randy Work, 49, a former executive at Texas-based private equity firm Lone
Star, had first claimed that his wife of 20 years, Mandy Gray, was entitled to
only £5m because she had “unfortunately” failed to stick to the terms of their
prenuptial agreement and had had an affair with the couple’s personal
A high court judge rejected Work’s claim that he made an “exceptional
contribution” to the marriage and was therefore entitled to more than a 50-50
split of the couple’s assets, which include a £30m mansion in Kensington, west
London, complete with swimming pool and fitness centre and an £18m ski lodge in
Ruling on their divorce in 2015 Justice Holman told the businessman that his
wealth contribution – which Work said totalled more than $300m in 10 years –
was not “wholly exceptional” and rejected his claim to be a financial “genius”.
“I personally find that a difficult, and perhaps unhelpful, word in this
context,” Holman said. “To my mind, the word ‘genius’ tends to be overused and
is properly reserved for Leonardo da Vinci, Mozart, Einstein and others like
Work, who has spent at least £3m fighting to keep his wife from collecting half
of the family fortune, took the case to the court of appeal which on Tuesday
unanimously rejected his appeal against Holman’s ruling. “In our view the
husband has failed to demonstrate that Holman J’s decision was wrong,” three
London has become known as the divorce capital of the world because British
judges tend not to discriminate between breadwinner and homemaker and order
equal splits of combined fortunes. However, Work had hoped to convince the
court of appeal judges to allow him to join those few men who had been granted
more than half of the combined assets in a divorce in recognition of the
Sir Martin Sorrell, founder of advertising firm WPP, was awarded 60% of joint
assets in his 2005 divorce from Sandra, his wife of 33 years. In 2014, a judge
granted the ex-wife of Chris Hohn, the billionaire founder of hedge fund The
Children’s Investment Fund, 36% of their $1.5bn fortune.
Holman had ruled that although Work was an “astute businessman”, Gray was a
“highly intelligent” woman who had given up her career to follow her husband to
Tokyo, where he made hundreds of millions of pounds exploiting the Japanese
“A successful claim to a special contribution requires some exceptional and
individual quality in the spouse concerned. Being in the right place at the
right time or benefiting from a period of boom is not enough,” Holman said.
“It may one day fall for consideration whether a very highly paid footballer,
who is very good at his job but may be no more skilful than past greats, such
as Stanley Matthews or Bobby Charlton, makes a special contribution or is
merely the lucky beneficiary of the colossal payments now made possible by the
Mandy Gray, who split up with Work in 2013. Photograph: Nick Ansell/PA
Holman said Work and Gray, 47, had been “two strong and equal partners” and he
would not have been able to amass his vast fortune without her contribution.
The pair, who are both American and have two teenage children, met in 1992 and
married in 1995. They split up in 2013 when Gray began an affair with the
couple’s physiotherapist, 44, who she now lives with in a rented flat in
During the divorce hearing Holman had said the case “should be so easy” to
settle as there was “plenty of money to go round” and criticised the couple for
descending into “unedifying and destructive pugilism”.
    Woman 'trapped in loveless marriage' after judges refuse divorce
    Unusual ruling by court of appeal in case of 40-year marriage prompts call
    for parliament to introduce ‘no fault’ divorce
    Woman 'trapped in loveless marriage' after judges refuse divorce
    The biggest financial risk for women today? Embarking on a relationship
    A new report underlines how financial inequality is built into divorce
    The biggest financial risk for women today? Embarking on a relationship
    Inside Britain’s sharia councils: hardline and anti-women – or a dignified
    Sharia councils say they offer Muslim women a way out of religious marriage
    but critics argue this parallel legal system can leave vulnerable people
    trapped in abuse. Here is a rare look behind the scenes
    Inside Britain’s sharia councils: hardline and anti-women – or a dignified
    I have left the family home. Divorce proceedings are under way
    My wife and I have separated after years of struggling to make our marriage
    I have left the family home. Divorce proceedings are under way
      □ Woman seeks to end 39-year marriage in Valentine's Day court appeal
        Woman seeks to end 39-year marriage in Valentine's Day court appeal
      □ 'I toasted my marriage certificate like a marshmallow': readers on
        'I toasted my marriage certificate like a marshmallow': readers on
      □ Eight ways to cope when your child gets divorced
        Eight ways to cope when your child gets divorced
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
