  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
'No one calls the housing association repairs line. There's no point'
Victoria Musguin says she has suffered flooding and loss of hot water for weeks
Suttons Wharf North resident Victoria Musguin: ‘We had problems from day one.’
[ ] Suttons Wharf North resident Victoria Musguin: ‘We had problems from day
'No one calls the housing association repairs line. There's no point'
Victoria Musguin says she has suffered flooding and loss of hot water for weeks
Tuesday 11 April 2017 11.01 BST Last modified on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
Victoria Musguin is a member of a social tribe at the heart of London’s
mounting housing scandals: young professionals living in shared ownership
properties in which housing associations retain a stake.
Musguin, 31, is a freelance film-maker who lives in Suttons Wharf North, a new
development in Mile End, east London. The housing was commissioned and is run
by One Housing Group, which oversees more than 15,000 homes in the capital and
its surrounding counties. Close by is Suttons Wharf South, completed in 2009.
Together, the two developments have benefited from £32m of Greater London
Housing associations face storm of complaints over new-build homes
“We had problems from day one,” says Musguin, whose flat was built in 2012.
“When we moved in, we turned on the taps in the kitchen sink and water flooded
everywhere, including into the flat below us. And the boiler went almost
immediately. We’d be without hot water for two, three weeks at a time. At one
point, three flats would give each other their kettles so we could run
At Suttons Wharf, residents say hot water outages remain a big issue, made
worse by One Housing’s poor customer service. The housing association says it
is aware of such outages, and is spending £150,000 “as we continue to work to
A ceiling in Suttons Wharf South. Photograph: Suttons Wharf Residents Group
At a recent residents’ meeting which the Guardian attended, other issues raised
included poor cleaning standards, wildly varying service charges, and an
infestation of moths in one block, which was damaging people’s clothes and
carpets. Over the Christmas period of 2015, one block was left without its main
front door for a week, which meant that it was open to intruders.
At Suttons Wharf South, though One Housing claims that the association is not
aware of any “outstanding reported defects”, the vice-chair of the residents’
association, Taz Kha’lique, says he and other residents have suffered an even
bigger range of problems, including complete outages of hot and cold water;
plug sockets and phone points with no wiring behind them, and incoming moisture
Gabriela Boeing, who has lived in a shared-ownership fifth-floor flat in the
same development for nearly six years, says as well as issues with leaking
water, she and other residents have had longstanding problems with mice. She
initially called in a pest control company who told her the creatures were
getting into her flat through a “a big hole in the kitchen that they said was
A light fitting in Suttons Wharf South. Photograph: Suttons Wharf Residents
In 2013, she received an email from One Housing’s home ownership adviser
claiming : “I have had had no other complaints regarding mice at Suttons Wharf
South.” Boeing says she knew of at least two other residents who had raised the
same problem, which reflects a common theme in a lot of residents’ accounts:
One Housing allegedly responding to complaints by claiming they are unique to a
particular flat and therefore the resident’s responsibility, when residents
know the issues in question are being widely experienced.
One Housing did not directly answer this point, but told the Guardian “we have
robust structures in place to monitor incoming reports and complaints ”.
Musguin strikes a rather different tone. “No one calls the repairs line now,”
  • Have you experienced problems with your housing association home?
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
