  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
What does boycotting palm oil achieve? – live chat
Join us on this page on Wednesday 5 April, 1-2pm (BST), to discuss how
consumers fit into the debate around the sustainability of palm oil
[ ] Halved oil palm kernels. Photograph: Tengku Bahar/AFP/Getty Images
Wednesday 5 April 2017 14.22 BST First published on Thursday 30 March 2017 
  • 2.22pm BST 14:22 The debate has come to an end
  • 1.55pm BST 13:55 MEPs vote to ban the use of palm oil in biofuels
  • 1.48pm BST 13:48 Traceability and transparency
  • 1.41pm BST 13:41 Is responding to consumer backlashes the best way to
  • 1.21pm BST 13:21 Why do people boycott palm oil?
Today’s palm oil debate has come to an end and, while we hope our summaries in
this live blog have been useful, we highly recommend you delve down into the
If you have any stories you want to share about consumers and palm oil off the
back of this discussion, please get in touch with tess.riley@theguardian.com
And look out for news of our upcoming London seminar in June about consumers
and palm oil, where we will be carrying forward today’s discussion. The event
page will be published on our palm oil debate series page over the next
Marion Pellegrin, head of sustainability for Olympic, the largest biscuit
manufacturer in Bangladesh, has talked about some of the issues she faces
working on issues of palm oil sustainability in Bangladesh:
    many companies do not have the means to pay for certification. But even if
    they do, there is no external incentive, as consumers do not apply
We asked the rest of the panel if they had anything to add about consumer
awareness in countries such as China and India, which import significant
    The relationship with consumers in countries like Indonesia and Malaysia,
    China and India is very different than in the West. We see some traction
    linked to MNC’s operating in those countries with No deforestation
    commitments buying from responsible sources, but we also see a lot of
    leakage. A market like China requiring all palm oil to come from
    sustainable sources would be a fundamental game changer in the sector.
Leonie Lawrence, global palm oil project manager for ZSL’s SPOTT team added:
    I think consumer awareness is growing globally and consumers can send a
    vital signal to brands and to their suppliers. We need to work on bringing
    the traders and refiners of palm oil in these markets into the debate and
    encourage them to source sustainably. We cannot focus just on consumers
    without providing solutions to the companies that are importing palm oil.
Thanks to Ryan for sharing this photo of Mike Bronner hard at work contributing
    Mike Bronner of @drbronner participates in a live panel discussion about #
    palmoil on @GuardianSustBiz w/ @tess_riley https://t.co/VqTBVWSUTZ
As the debate continues, we wanted to flag up this development from yesterday,
which saw MEPs vote overwhelmingly for a ban on biofuels made from palm oil by
Something that has come up several times in this debate is transparency.
Jonathan Horrell, director of global sustainability for Mondelez, has jumped
    There’s rapid growth in traceability and transparency, driven by
    technology, data, and demand from end-use businesses and other
    Traceability is a way to follow consignments of product through from
    production to end-use. Transparency is a way to increase visibility of
    conditions, practices and impacts in supply chains.
    Traceability and transparency are not the same. They often use different
    tools and have different objectives. Traceability is often mistakenly
    portrayed as an end in itself. This drives companies to pursue it at high
    cost, without a clear purpose – what change does it drive? – what level of
    traceability is appropriate? – does full segregation through a supply chain
    add value, if you already have transparency of conditions, practices and
    We use traceability and transparency to support sustainability impact on
    the ground, for example by tracking and monitoring deforestation risk in
Is responding to consumer backlashes the best way to address supply chain
Our second question comes after news that the Bank of England is considering
replacing animal fat in banknotes with palm oil, following a public petition.
So, what we want to know from the panel is this: is responding to consumer
backlashes the best way to address supply chain sustainability?
    We assume consumers have the full picture and with something as complex as
    palm oil it is hard for them to grasp all the nuances...Consumer backlash
    can be informative as a means of telling you what you need to do better in,
    sure, but also what you need to communicate better about so consumers can
Katie McCoy, head of forests at CDP, who has joined the discussion, says:
    Companies do consider customers as key stakeholders. Rather than being
    reactive to backlashes, companies should be proactive in publicly stating
    their goals and targets towards sustainability and transparently
Meanwhile Ignacio Gavilan, environmental sustainability director, Consumer
    There’s a great opportunity here by the Bank of England to show leadership
    and also educate consumers about palm oil now that they’re on the spot
    light; in general public procurement could be a GREAT driver of market
Our first question to the panel goes right to the heart of the debate: why do
Emma Keller, agricultural commodities manager at WWF, says:
    Most people hear palm oil and flinch - thinking it is bad and is something
    they should avoid. As Bastien says, there is a real misconception about
    palm oil in general that we need to try and address. But there are a lot of
Anita Neville, vice president of corporate communications and sustainability
    I think the palm oil industry of which I am part has done a terrible job of
    telling the story of some of the very good things that are happening to
    tackle those challenges. And that palm oil does in terms of livelihood
But Mike Bronner, president of Dr Bronner’s, points out that consumers are
    I think people boycott palm oil because they want to find a direct way to
    enact real change with their buying decisions. This is admirable and
    effective. Much palm oil indeed is grown on monocultures on huge
    plantations where rainforest is destroyed to make room for more arable
    land. Unfortunately, people often “throw out the baby with the bathwater”
    and end up boycotting all palm oil, even that which is grown sustainably on
Welcome to today’s live chat about palm oil on Guardian Sustainable Business.
Over the next hour we’ll be talking to panellists and readers about what role
boycotting can play in creating a more sustainable palm oil industry, how
companies can engage with the concerns of their customers and what they are
doing about deforestation, biodiversity loss and treatment of workers in the
Join us as we discover more and feel free to put your own question to the panel
In response to concerns about the impact of palm oil production on biodiversity
, local communities and plantation workers, some individuals and campaign
groups have called for a boycott of any products containing the commodity.
Others point out that some of the alternatives to palm oil such as soybean or
rapeseed oil come with their own list of problems.
Others still argue that consumer boycotts in Europe and the US are futile when
countries such as India and China – two of the world’s largest palm oil
importers – leave palm oil’s sustainability credentials largely unquestioned.
Join us on Wednesday 5 April between 1-2pm (BST) as we debate the role of
consumer boycotts and where they fit in to the sustainable palm oil debate.
  • What role can boycotting play in creating a more sustainable palm oil
  • Beyond boycotts, how can consumers improve the sustainability of palm oil?
  • How can companies engage with the concerns of their customers?
  • What are companies doing about deforestation, biodiversity loss and
    treatment of workers in the palm oil supply chain?
The Italians fighting against an 'invasion' of palm oil
Mike Bronner, president, Dr. Bronner’s. Mike will be joined by Gero Leson,
director of special operations, who manages the company’s production facilities
Ignacio Gavilan, environmental sustainability director, Consumer Goods Forum
Emma Keller, agricultural commodities manager, WWF-UK
Leonie Lawrence, global palm oil project manager, ZSL’s SPOTT team
Anita Neville, vice president corporate communications and sustainability
Moderator - Tess Riley, deputy editor, Guardian Sustainable Business
If you would like to be considered please email tess.riley@theguardian.com
You can send questions in advance by emailing tess.riley@theguardian.com or
tweeting @GuardianSustBiz using the hashtag #AskGSB
Make sure you’re a registered user of the Guardian and join us on Wednesday 5
April between 1-2pm (BST) in the comments section below, which will open on the
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
