  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Small business owners support Sturgeon's plans for another referendum
Guardian readers’ poll reveals strong backing for a second independence vote
and a number of entrepreneurs who will vote yes this time after Brexit result
Scotland’s First Minister Nicola Sturgeonworking on the final draft of her
Section 30 letter to Britain’s Prime Minister Theresa May
[ ] First minister Nicola Sturgeon still needs the agreement from Westminster
to hold a second independence referendum. Photograph: Stuart Nicol/AP
Small business owners support Sturgeon's plans for another referendum
Guardian readers’ poll reveals strong backing for a second independence vote
and a number of entrepreneurs who will vote yes this time after Brexit result
Thursday 6 April 2017 14.14 BST Last modified on Friday 7 April 2017 09.57 BST
It’s been billed by critics as a vanity project for Scottish first minister
Nicola Sturgeon, who wants independence from the rest of the UK whatever it
takes. Theresa May has accused Sturgeon of “tunnel vision” and said her plans
'The landscape has changed': Scottish voters on re-evaluating independence |
But after the Scottish parliament voted in favour of holding a second
independence referendum last week, it appears Scottish small business owners
are also in favour of plans for another vote. Of the 145 entrepreneurs and self
employed workers who responded to a Guardian request, 86% said they would
The majority of those who responded had voted yes to independence in the 2014
referendum and said they would vote yes again. But 12% of remain voters said
they would change their vote given the opportunity and now support
independence. On the flip side, only 2% who had voted yes before would switch
That number could be significant if representative. In the 2014 referendum, 45%
voted for an independent Scotland and 55% voted to remain in the UK.
Before the 2014 vote, Scottish businesses were predominantly on the side of
remaining in the United Kingdom – of the 1,000 entrepreneurs surveyed by
Ingenious Britain, 48% believed it would be a negative step for their firm.
It’s a shift too in opinion from May 2016, when a Federation of Small
Businesses survey among 440 business owners in Scotland found 57% did not want
a second independence vote in the next five years.
But the EU referendum result just a month later seems to have had an impact. A
recent Opinium/Observer poll found that the majority (63%) of Scottish voters
believe the Brexit vote has made the breakup of the United Kingdom more likely,
    In every way, socially, politically and economically, we are stronger in
Elizabeth Carnahan, founder of Gracefruit Ltd, voted no in 2014 because of the
possibility of Scotland losing its EU membership, and would vote yes this time.
She believes a good relationship with the EU is just as important to her
business as one with the UK: “While we export a lot to the EU, we buy most of
our components and raw materials from distributors within the UK (although most
of these are imported from elsewhere). Leaving the single market would disrupt
supply chains affecting many UK businesses, not just mine.”
Carnahan has found that political uncertainty has affected her business
already. “We’ve had contact from worried EU customers who depend on our
products for their own small businesses. [And] due to the falling value of the
pound, we have seen significant price increases on most everything we buy.”
Corrado Mella, managing director of Scottish Broadband Telecom, voted in favour
of independence in 2014 and would do so again in a second referendum. He
believes the timing is important, but backs Sturgeon’s estimate of early 2019.
“The referendum must be held before the UK drops out of the free trade
agreement and as soon as the Brexit terms are agreed and confirmed. It’s clear
that trading with Europe, with cheap and easy transit and transport, is
advantageous for SMEs. The same cannot be said for other overseas
He does not believe that Scottish firms will have to choose between Europe and
the UK if Sturgeon does get a mandate to remove Scotland from the union: “An
independent Scotland, as an EU member, will trade with what’s left of the UK
through the agreement reached by the two parties. [And] having a neighbouring
Scotland in the EU provides a cheap and easy route to the EU markets [for the
Julie Inglis, director of KubeNet in Glasgow, is not in favour of a second
referendum. She voted remain the first time around and says: “My personal
opinion is that leaving the EU is a mistake, however given where we are, it’s
now time to focus on creating sustainable employment, increasing manufacturing,
and buying from within, as opposed to buying cheap from overseas.”
Spain drops plan to impose veto if Scotland tries to join EU
Brexit has already impacted her business: “The impact has been on procurement
of hardware from some of the global vendors, [which] directly impacts our
margins. Some of our customers have been hesitant in committing to investments,
which has delayed projects slightly. [But] overall, the impact to our business
Carl MacDougall, a self-employed writer voted no in 2014 because “the economic
case [for independence] was weak, important questions were unseen or avoided
and the case mostly depended on an emotional, chauvinistic appeal.”
Now he would support independence: “In every way, socially, politically and
economically, we are stronger in Europe. The special relationship with America
mostly works one way. The pound is weak and looks vulnerable, unlike the euro.
And the government case against Scottish independence – that it is divisive,
playing politics with Britain’s future and likely to cause huge economic
“The Europe we were told needed us more than we needed them is better prepared
for our exit than we are. We have an opportunity to stand alone with no one but
ourselves to blame, to rid ourselves of the Little Englander attitude that
tells us they know best ... What’s wrong with that? I imagine there are a few
Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more
advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
