  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Tesco profits top £1bn in first full-year sales growth for seven years
Supermarket giant has fought back against discounters Aldi and Lidl with a
[ ] Tesco has reported an annual profit of £1.28bn. Photograph: Daniel
Tesco profits top £1bn in first full-year sales growth for seven years
Supermarket giant has fought back against discounters Aldi and Lidl with a
Wednesday 12 April 2017 10.01 BST First published on Wednesday 12 April 2017 
Tesco profits have broken through £1bn once again, powered by a recovery at its
UK supermarket chain which has enjoyed its first year of sales growth in seven
The UK’s biggest retailer reported a 30% jump in group operating profit to
£1.28bn in the year to the end of February, which was ahead of City
expectations. Within that figure, the UK business saw profits surge 60% to
“We are ahead of where we expected to be at this stage,” said the Tesco chief
executive, Dave Lewis, who was parachuted in to lead a turnaround of the
supermarket giant in 2014. “Today our prices are lower, our range is simpler
and our service and availability has never been better.”
Asda reignites row over 'farm' brands by relaunching value range
Lewis said the UK chain, which had been losing shoppers to discounters Aldi and
Lidl for most of this decade, had delivered its first full year of growth since
the 2009/10 financial year, with like-for-like sales up 0.9%. The retailer
fought back against discounters with the introduction of a budget range of
own-label “farm” brands. It also slashed the number of promotions in favour of
“We don’t welcome inflation and when we do see it we have conversations with
our supplier base to mitigate it as much as we can,” said Lewis, who added that
food prices had fallen 1.8% over the past year despite inflation of up to 0.6%
creeping in in the fourth quarter. Despite the mounting cost pressures in the
food industry Lewis said a typical Tesco basket still cost 6% less than when he
Last year Tesco removed Marmite and other household brands made by Unilever
from its website after the manufacturer tried to raise its prices by about 10%
owing to sterling’s slump after the Brexit vote. Lewis said it was working with
suppliers to avoid the need for price rises and believed it was passing less
The strong results from the UK chain, which generates the lion’s share of
profits, will help Lewis persuade shareholders that the business is in good
shape ahead of its proposed £3.7bn takeover of Booker, the cash-and-carry group
behind the Londis and Budgens chains. Its international arm fared less well,
with operating profit tumbling 12.5% to £320m amid a price war in Poland.
Last year Tesco made an operating profit of £944m but five years ago that
figure was £4bn, which is why some investors are worried the purchase of Booker
will derail its recovery. Last month Schroders and Artisan Partners, which
between them own 9% of Tesco, revealed they had both written to the Tesco
chairman, John Allan, to ask him to pull out of the deal.
The shares were down 3% in morning trading, with Kantar Retail analyst Ray Gaul
pointing to strengthening headwinds with rising costs, grocery inflation as
well as any opposition to the Booker deal to contend with in the coming year.
“The company has taken steps to reduce managerial staff, particularly deputy
store managers in Express stores, close distribution centres, and reduce
opening hours at 24-hour stores,” said Gaul. “The question for 2017/18 is
whether these cuts will be enough to lift sales and continue excellent progress
Lewis took charge after a string of profit warnings under his predecessor,
Philip Clarke. But the subsequent discovery of accounting irregularities forced
him to embark on a major restructuring of the business, including the disposal
of its South Korean chain Homeplus for £4bn. The shakeup culminated in a £6.4bn
loss two years ago – one of the biggest losses in British corporate history –
after the group slashed the book value of its property and stock.
Tesco is now close to drawing a line under the accounting scandal. Last month
the company agreed to pay a fine of £129m to settle the Serious Fraud Office
investigation. It also struck an £85m deal with the Financial Conduct Authority
to compensate affected shareholders. The cost of these deals pulled pre-tax
Last October Lewis set a target that by 2020 it will earn between 3.5p and 4p
of operating profit for every £1 customers spend. The group currently makes
2.3p in the £1. To get there Lewis is slashing £1.5bn from the company’s
running costs with £226m carved out over the past six months. There was
evidence of that cost saving programme last week when store staff were told
that 3,000 jobs were at risk as part of a shakeup that involves cutting night
shifts for shelf stackers in some of its biggest supermarkets.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
