  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Trump's trade barriers would be 'self-inflicted wound', says IMF chief
Christine Lagarde says ‘sword of protectionism’ hangs over global economy and
The IMF’s Christine Lagarde said the global economy was gaining momentum but
[ ] The IMF’s Christine Lagarde said the global economy was gaining momentum
but still faced risks. Photograph: Emmanuel Dunand/AFP/Getty Images
Trump's trade barriers would be 'self-inflicted wound', says IMF chief
Christine Lagarde says ‘sword of protectionism’ hangs over global economy and
Wednesday 12 April 2017 11.15 BST Last modified on Wednesday 12 April 2017 
The head of the International Monetary Fund, Christine Lagarde, has delivered
one of her strongest condemnations of the protectionist policies of Donald
Trump with a warning that putting up barriers to trade would be a
“self-inflicted wound” to an improving global economy.
Lagarde used a speech in Brussels to launch a strong attack on the go-it-alone
approach championed by the US president during his election battle with Hillary
Speaking ahead of the IMF’s spring meeting next week, Lagarde said
international cooperation had been vital in preventing the deep recession of
Global productivity slowdown risks creating instability, warns IMF
After Trump picked strong critics of the IMF to be key members of his treasury
team, Lagarde defended her organisation, saying it had helped foster the
international cooperation that had underpinned a “phenomenal rise in incomes
She added: “More recently, we worked together to ensure that the Great
Recession did not become another Great Depression. Cooperation through a
multilateral framework has benefited every country. Fostering more resilient
growth therefore requires more international cooperation – not less.”
Trump has threatened to put swingeing tariffs on Chinese goods and to impose a
tax on imports coming into the US as part of an economic strategy designed to
Lagarde said cooperation was a better way of dealing with the global imbalances
that have resulted in some countries – such as China and Germany – running
trade surpluses while others – including the US – run deficits. This meant
working together to ensure that countries observed a level playing field,
“Restricting trade would be a ‘self-inflicted wound’ that disrupts supply
chains, hurts global output, and inflates the prices of production materials
and consumer goods. And low-income households are hurt the most as they consume
The IMF will release its half-yearly health check on the global economy next
week but Lagarde hinted that the growth prospects for 2017 would be revised up.
After six years of disappointing growth, Lagarde said the global economy was
gaining momentum – holding out the prospect of more jobs and higher incomes.
“At the same time, there are clear downside risks: political uncertainty,
including in Europe; the sword of protectionism hanging over global trade; and
tighter global financial conditions that could trigger disruptive capital
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
