  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Trump is reckless – but he knows he can't afford to antagonise China
His comments during the campaign didn’t bolster high hopes, but his summit with
[ ] Trump knows he needs to do business with China’s Xi Jinping. Photograph:
Trump is reckless – but he knows he can't afford to antagonise China
His comments during the campaign didn’t bolster high hopes, but his summit with
Tuesday 11 April 2017 13.17 BST Last modified on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
Donald Trump’s comments about China during the US presidential campaign didn’t
exactly bolster high hopes for Sino-American relations once he was elected.
Trump denounced China for “taking our jobs” and “[stealing] hundreds of
billions of dollars in our intellectual property”. He repeatedly accused China
of manipulating its currency. The low point came last May, when Trump warned
his followers: “We can’t continue to allow China to rape our country. That’s
what they’re doing. It’s the greatest theft in the history of the world.”
Given such inflammatory rhetoric, many people understandably felt considerable
trepidation in the runup to Trump’s summit with the Chinese president, Xi
Jinping, at Trump’s Mar-a-Lago estate. It wasn’t hard to imagine a refused
handshake or the presentation of a bill for payment, like the one Trump
reportedly gave the visiting German chancellor, Angela Merkel, (a report denied
Instead, Trump treated Xi with considerable deference. One explanation is that
he was preoccupied by the impending US missile strike on Syria. Another is that
it is easier to command Trump’s respect when you have an aircraft carrier,
3,000 military planes, and 1.6 million ground troops.
Trump to visit China as Beijing touts 'new era' of ties with US
But the best explanation is surely that the US depends too heavily on China,
economically and politically, for even a president as diplomatically reckless
Economically, the US and China are too closely interlinked through global
supply chains to be able to cut ties. US companies not only compete with
Chinese imports; they also rely heavily on them. Retailers such as Target and
Walmart rely on Chinese imports to stock their shelves. Electronics companies
such as Apple rely on workers in China to assemble their products. And the idea
that the US could easily source the same inputs from other countries is
Put simply, while Trump has repeatedly observed that China sells more to the US
than the US sells to China, starting a trade war in an effort to correct this
supposed imbalance would still cost American business very dearly.
And if there is one constituency that Trump listens to consistently, it is
business. Aggressive US trade sanctions against China would send equity prices
plunging, alarming a US president who measures his economic policy success by
the level of the stock market. The 1930 Smoot-Hawley Tariff didn’t cause the
Great Crash, much less the Great Depression. But that tariff and the foreign
retaliation it elicited sent the stock market down still further, which was
Politically, too, the US cannot afford serious conflict with China, given the
growing crisis on the Korean peninsula, which North Korean provocations and
Trump’s incautious reaction have brought to the fore. Posturing aside, Trump
will be forced to recognise that military force is not an option. A surgical
strike against North Korea’s nuclear facilities would most probably not
succeed, while a massive attack would provoke devastating retaliation against
The only feasible strategy is tighter sanctions and political pressure to bring
North Korea to the negotiating table. And the only party capable of tightening
sanctions and applying effective political pressure is China, whose goodwill
Trump’s about-face on China is of a piece with his “recalibration” on repealing
Obamacare, reforming the tax code, organising a large-scale
infrastructure-investment initiative, and renegotiating the North American Free
Trade Agreement (Nafta). In each case, his glib campaign slogans have run up
against the hard reality of actually making policy.
In all these areas, Trump is learning that he is hemmed in by the same
constraints that led Barack Obama’s administration to make the choices it did.
As with Obama, the agent of change is turning out to be an agent of continuity.
The US has some legitimate economic grievances against China – for example,
over its treatment of American intellectual property and US beef and grain
exports. But the appropriate venue for adjudicating such disputes is the World
Trade Organisation. That is where Trump’s administration, like Obama’s, is
The Trump administration could yet label China a currency manipulator, rebuking
it for keeping its exchange rate artificially low. It could do so either now or
later in the year. But that accusation would be contrary to the facts: the
renminbi is now fairly valued, and China has actually been intervening to
support the exchange rate, not weaken it further. Inside the Washington, DC
beltway, however, facts are no longer what they once were. Singling out China
for manipulation might still appeal to a president who values symbolism as much
But little of consequence would follow. The US depends too much on Chinese
cooperation to risk overly antagonising China’s leaders. Labelling China a
currency manipulator would be the economic policy equivalent of launching 59
cruise missiles at an isolated air base in Syria. It would be much sound and
• Barry Eichengreen is professor of economics at the University of California,
Berkeley; Pitt professor of American history and institutions at the University
of Cambridge; and a former senior policy adviser at the IMF.
    China voices economic fears about Donald Trump presidency
    Beijing’s concerns about a further slowdown in trade come as political
    uncertainty and social tensions spread anxiety about global economy
    China voices economic fears about Donald Trump presidency
  • US jobs report means Fed rate hike is a bolt-on certainty
    It’s good news for Donald Trump as employment rose by more than expected –
    but the Federal Reserve will be worried about the economy overheating
    US jobs report means Fed rate hike is a bolt-on certainty
    Trump presidency poses threat to global economy, warns Fitch
    Ratings agency highlights US president’s unpredictability and break from
    Trump presidency poses threat to global economy, warns Fitch
    Beijing holds trillions of dollars in US debt and any trade disruption
    could lead to huge price rises in the budget stores on which many Americans
      □ Donald Trump keeps China on hold with letter but no phone call for Xi
        Donald Trump keeps China on hold with letter but no phone call for Xi
      □ Demand for gold hits four-year high after Brexit and Trump votes
        Demand for gold hits four-year high after Brexit and Trump votes
      □ Strong dollar drags US growth to slowest pace since 2011
        Strong dollar drags US growth to slowest pace since 2011
      □ Dow Jones hits record high – is Trump good for stock markets?
        Dow Jones hits record high – is Trump good for stock markets?
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
