  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
UK inflation is only going one way. Let's hope interest rates don't follow
The question is not whether inflation will continue rising in 2017 but how high
[ ] If inflation hits 4% it would be nigh-on impossible to keep interest rates
UK inflation is only going one way. Let's hope interest rates don't follow
The question is not whether inflation will continue rising in 2017 but how high
Tuesday 11 April 2017 12.01 BST Last modified on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
It seems so obvious. The Bank of England sets interest rates to hit the
government’s 2% inflation target. Inflation is currently 2.3% and – despite
holding steady in March – is certain to go higher over the coming months.
Higher borrowing costs choke off inflationary pressure. Therefore interest
In reality, it is a bit more complicated than that. The first thing the nine
members of the Bank’s monetary policy committee have to decide is whether the
above-target inflation seen in the last couple of months is a temporary blip.
It’s quite clear it isn’t. Food is going up, energy companies are raising their
tariffs, retailers are passing on the higher costs of imports caused by a
Last month’s inflation figure was flattered by the timing of Easter, which led
to a sharp fall in the annual cost of air fares. That one-off factor will be
reversed in April. The question is not whether inflation will continue rising
in 2017, but how high it will go. At least to 3% is the answer, perhaps a bit
The next thing for the MPC to consider is whether there is a risk of inflation
becoming entrenched. That would happen if rising prices led to workers
successfully negotiating higher wages to compensate them for the hit to living
standards. There seems little sign that inflation will feed on itself, as it
Paradoxical though it sounds, a combination of higher prices and stagnant wages
is actually deflationary for the economy. That’s because living standards come
under downward pressure, leading to consumers tightening their belts and
companies investing less. The Bank doesn’t need to raise interest rates to
bring down inflation. If it shows a bit of patience, inflation will come down
That is provided there is not another downward lurch in sterling, because that
would further raise the cost of imports and push the inflation rate closer to
4%. If the MPC sat tight under those circumstances, the financial markets might
decide that the pound was a one-way bet and carry on selling.
That would be the nightmare scenario for the Bank. Rising inflation would
intensify the deflationary squeeze on living standards but make it nigh-on
impossible to ignore the case for an interest-rate rise that would risk tipping
So what does the MPC do? Simple. Members of the committee make hawkish speeches
in which they explain how serious they are about hitting the inflation target.
A couple of them even vote for a rate rise, in the hope that the pretence of an
early increase in borrowing costs supports the pound. Meanwhile, the MPC keeps
Productivity slump linked to research investment failure
The impact of the financial crisis that began almost 10 years ago is well
documented. Banks made reckless decisions and some of them nearly collapsed as
a result. Lenders became risk-averse and stopped lending. The lack of credit
The story of how RBS and HBOS teetered on the brink of disaster after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers in the autumn of 2008 is by now familiar. Less well
explained is the link between the credit crunch and productivity recorded since
the slump. Output per worker in the UK is around 15% lower than it would have
been had the pre-crisis trend continued, and nobody really knows why.
Maarten de Ridder, an economist at Cambridge University, thinks he has at least
part of the solution to the productivity puzzle: companies that wanted to
invest in research and development struggled to obtain funds from the stricken
banks, resulting in a 32% fall in R&D investment in 2008-09, the years when the
Innovation takes time to bear fruit so de Ridder – in a paper presented to the
Royal Economic Society’s annual conference – compared sales in the US between
2011 and 2014 for firms that relied on the most credit-constrained banks and
those that fared better during the financial crisis. He found that the most
severely affected firms fell 12% behind those with the least exposure, with
dramatic results for the wider economy. His results are even more relevant to
Britain, where the post-crisis productivity slowdown has been even more
pronounced. Had cash-starved UK firms been able to find the necessary finance,
Britain’s R&D is, according to the latest official figures, on a gently rising
trend so it may be firms that want funds for investment are now able to get
them. But de Ridder says that in the event of another financial crisis the
state should itself make credit available to ensure companies can carry on
    Economists warn CPI will rise further as Brexit-effect on sterling inflates
    grocery bills and eats into already strained household budgets
    Sharp rise in UK food prices inflates household shopping bills
    Supermarket moves to ditch promotions coupled with weakened pound following
    Brexit vote add average £21.31 to quarterly food bills
    Sharp rise in UK food prices inflates household shopping bills
    From energy bills to dental work, it's UK national price hike day
    Rising food prices was just the beginning – the cost of almost anything
    else you can think of will go up from Saturday
    From energy bills to dental work, it's UK national price hike day
    Snack attack! Doritos and Coco Pops among latest products to shrink in UK
    Fall in the pound and sugar reduction efforts cited as reasons for latest
    Snack attack! Doritos and Coco Pops among latest products to shrink in UK
      □ Food inflation doubles in a month as UK shoppers start to feel the
        Food inflation doubles in a month as UK shoppers start to feel the
      □ Hammond gets budget boost as OECD upgrades UK growth forecast
        Hammond gets budget boost as OECD upgrades UK growth forecast
      □ Days of low inflation are over with UK consumer finances to take a hit
        Days of low inflation are over with UK consumer finances to take a hit
      □ UK inflation rises to 1.8% spurred by weak pound and rising fuel costs
        UK inflation rises to 1.8% spurred by weak pound and rising fuel costs
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
