  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
UK internet ad spend passes £10bn as Google faces YouTube row
Companies more than double spending on mobile video ads as Britons watch clips,
[ ] Google has benefited from the surge in internet advertising – but now faces
a row over ads appearing next to extremist videos on YouTube. Photograph: Loic
UK internet ad spend passes £10bn as Google faces YouTube row
Companies more than double spending on mobile video ads as Britons watch clips,
Wednesday 12 April 2017 07.32 BST First published on Wednesday 12 April 2017 
Internet advertising spend surged above £10bn in the UK last year as companies
more than doubled the amount they spent on mobile video ads.
The year-on-year increase of 17% on 2015 comes as many advertisers have pulled
campaigns from Google and YouTube after it emerged that some ads have been
running around inappropriate content such as extremist videos.
Hundreds of advertisers have “paused” spending on YouTube – where 400 hours of
videos are uploaded every minute – which has pledged to tighten controls on
where ads appear, such as by banning them running on accounts with fewer than
However, the overall trend is for growth. Last year’s increase, the biggest
since 2007, was fuelled by a boom in mobile ad spend, which rose by 51% to
“People are increasingly using their smartphones to watch more clips,
programmes and films,” said James Chandler, the chief marketing officer at the
Internet Advertising Bureau UK, which published the annual digital ad spend
report. “Consequently, as companies have to follow what the industry calls
‘eyeballs’ to get their ads in front of people, they have to allocate more
budget to mobile and online video as that’s where people are spending more
The IAB report also found that nearly three-quarters of the £3.8bn digital
display advertising market is traded programmatically, where machines have
become largely responsible for choosing where ads are booked by advertisers and
Programmatic trading has come under attack following the furore over Google and
YouTube placing ads next to inappropriate content.
“Right now, considerations such as brand safety mean the advertiser is rightly
demanding more certainty in the placement of their ads,” said Dan Bunyan,
senior manager at PwC, which produced the report with the IAB. “The industry is
evolving quickly to find new solutions to address brands’ needs in this dynamic
The Conservative MP Nigel Huddleston, a member of the Commons culture, media
and sport select committee, said: “With huge scale comes huge responsibility.
They need to take the concerns of advertisers and the general public far more
seriously than they have shown in the past. They need to get their act together
and make sure they do a better job at improving blocking inappropriate
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
