  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
United Airlines CEO offers softer apology after stock nosedives
Close to $1bn wiped off holding company’s value before stock rallies, after a
man was violently removed from a flight by aviation police
United Airlines passenger forcibly removed from overbooked flight – video
United Airlines CEO offers softer apology after stock nosedives
Close to $1bn wiped off holding company’s value before stock rallies, after a
man was violently removed from a flight by aviation police
Dominic Rushe in New York and David Smith in Washington
Wednesday 12 April 2017 11.10 BST First published on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━
The CEO of United Airlines has issued a second public apology about the man who
was forcibly removed from a flight on Sunday, calling the incident “truly
United Airlines CEO calls dragged passenger 'disruptive and belligerent'
“No one should ever be mistreated this way,” Oscar Munoz wrote in a note to
employees Tuesday, one day after video posted by fellow passengers showing
Munoz was criticized after his official statement on Monday described the
violent removal as an effort to “re-accommodate” passengers. He also described
the man as “disruptive and belligerent”. As the company’s share prices plunged
on Tuesday, however, the executive turned attention back on to the company.
Nearly $1bn of the company’s value was erased in trading on Tuesday. Later that
day, Munoz said he was committed to “fix what’s broken so this never happens
again”. He pledged to review the company’s policies for seeking volunteers to
give up their seats, for handling oversold flights and for partnering with
The company plans to share results of the review by 30 April.
The value of the carrier’s holding company, United Continental Holdings, had
fallen over 4% before noon, knocking almost a billion dollars off its value. It
rallied slightly, leaving the share price down 2.8%, close to $600m less than
Investors had largely shrugged off United’s woes during trading on Monday. The
airline’s stock finished Monday’s trading session 0.9% higher, adding about
But the airline’s problems only seem to have escalated since Sunday, when a man
was violently removed from a flight by aviation police officials at Chicago’s
O’Hare international airport after refusing to volunteer his seat on the
America's airlines are shameless. But United just set a new low | Arwa Mahdawi
In one video clip, guards aggressively grab then drag the passenger down the
aisle of the plane as other passengers shout: “Oh my God” and “Look what you
Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said he was “sure” that Donald
“I don’t think anyone looks at that video and isn’t a little disturbed that
another human being is treated that way,” he told reporters. “Clearly watching
another human being dragged down an aisle, watching blood come from their face
after hitting an armrest or whatever, I don’t think there’s a circumstance that
you can’t sit back and say this probably could have been handled a little bit
better, when you’re talking about another human being.”
Spicer noted that United was conducting a review and described it as a local
matter that did not necessarily require a federal response. “I think there’s
plenty of law enforcement to review a situation like that and I know United
Airlines has stated that they are currently reviewing their own policies. Let’s
On Tuesday, Munoz attracted criticism after calling the passenger “disruptive
and belligerent” and saying that the airline’s employees had “followed
The passenger is overheard in one video claiming he was being profiled for
being Chinese, and the video has caused outrage in China and calls for a
Ahead of the market’s open, United shares had been down by as much as 6% in
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
