  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Zero house price inflation is to be welcomed not feared
Stalling property prices are a chance to rebalance the UK economy towards
[ ] The ‘sugar rush’ of the government’s help to buy scheme has finally worn
off. Photograph: Chris Ratcliffe/Bloomberg via Getty Images
Zero house price inflation is to be welcomed not feared
Stalling property prices are a chance to rebalance the UK economy towards
Sunday 9 April 2017 12.10 BST Last modified on Sunday 9 April 2017 22.00 BST
Ready to go house hunting? Tradition has it that no sooner have the hot cross
buns been buttered on Good Friday than potential buyers start the search for a
new home. Estate agents look forward to Easter the way retailers relish
Christmas, but perhaps with less exuberance this year than is customary.
As things stand, 2017 looks set to be the weakest year for housing transactions
since 2013. The latest surveys from Nationwide and Halifax show house prices
In a sense, the lack of oomph in the property market is curious. Home ownership
is still much sought after in Britain, where there is a strong feeling that
bricks and mortar are a more reliable long-term investment than any other
asset. What’s more, it has never been cheaper to borrow.
Even before the Bank of England cut interest rates to a record low of 0.25%,
lenders were vying with each other to offer the most attractive home loan
packages. Competition has driven down mortgage rates to ultra-low levels. Home
ownership has fallen sharply, since peaking in the early 2000s, and is now at
its lowest level in 30 years, yet there is no surge of prospective buyers
One explanation is that Brexit has made people wary about taking on financial
commitments. Another is that rising inflation has made individuals feel worse
off and is having a dampening effect on the housing market.
Neither argument looks entirely convincing. Robust car sales suggest consumers
are happy to buy big-ticket items, while the recent rise in the cost of living
has been modest by historic standards. Inflation stands at just over 2%; within
The likeliest explanation for the muted state of the property market is that
houses are simply too expensive for first-time buyers, even with mortgage rates
as low as they are. According to the Office for National Statistics, the
average house price is 7.6 times the average annual salary, more than double
the figure two decades ago. The Bank wants to prevent the sort of excessive
lending that took place before the financial crisis of a decade ago and has
told lenders not to offer loans that are more than 4.5 times a borrower’s
In those circumstances, only one of three things can happen. Earnings growth
can pick up while house prices remain steady. Earnings growth can remain modest
while house prices fall. Or prices remain high and income growth remains low,
There seems little prospect of an acceleration in wage growth, currently
running at little more than 2%. Equally, the conditions that would normally
prompt a sharp fall in house prices – high and rising interest rates and
increasing unemployment – are not present. The market will go sideways until
such time as demand drops, the supply of homes increases or the Bank relaxes
While the economy has certainly slowed since the turn of the year, it is not
about to plummet into recession. Sharply higher interest rates from the Bank
would certainly kill off demand for property, but that doesn’t look likely
either. Meanwhile, a good chunk of the homes that are being built appear to be
going to overseas buyers who have found their money goes further as a result of
In short, the economy has reverted to the state it was in before George Osborne
gave the housing market a boost halfway through the last parliament. Two
policies, Funding for Lending and help to buy, got mortgage lending going again
But this was a sugar rush. There was a limit to how far house prices could rise
and that limit has been reached. Many of those who are ostensibly gaining from
rising house prices are opening branches of the bank of mum and dad so their
The prospect now is a period in which house price inflation hovers around zero,
but this is to be welcomed rather than feared. All the major recessions in the
economy over the past four decades have come after unsustainable housing booms;
the periods when the economy has rebalanced towards manufacturing and
investment, such as the mid 1990s, have been when house price inflation has
been weak. Growth in 2017 will rely less on the strength of the housing market
and more on the ability of UK exporters to take advantage of a more competitive
Britain could learn something from other countries, namely that you don’t need
rising house prices or even high levels of owner occupation to be rich and
successful. Germany has done just fine, even though it has a far bigger rented
sector than Britain and has had much lower levels of house price inflation.
Research by Andrew Oswald and Danny Blanchflower shows rising home ownership
leads to a subsequent increase in unemployment, because owner occupation
affects labour mobility, increases congestion costs and encourages Nimby-style
behaviour that means fewer new businesses. The correlation holds true across
the developed countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
There is no evidence that buying a house means you personallly lose your job a
couple of years down the line, which suggests Britons will not easily be turned
on by the idea of becoming a nation of renters. But the idea that high levels
of renting can be associated with a dynamic local economy is supported by the
evidence of London, which is thriving even though buying a home is a distant
dream for most young people. It may also explain why unemployment was so low in
the 1950s and 60s, when councils were building homes to rent.
Sooner or later, a politician is going to be brave enough to say Britain has
got housing policy completely wrong. They will say, quite correctly, that there
is no future in an economy so heavily reliant on a housing market that lurches
from boom to bust. They will demand that the shackles be taken off local
authorities so they can tackle a homelessness crisis. They will accept that
Britain’s taxation system encourages demand for housing, while the planning
That would mean reform of a property tax system that manages to stimulate
demand, encourage land hoarding and be regressive all at the same time. It
would also mean taking on the biggest vested interest in Britain: owner
occupiers who, through luck rather than skill, have amassed considerable wealth
as a result of soaring housing prices. Which is why it is not going to happen
    UK house prices slide for first time in almost two years, says Nationwide
    Average price of a home down 0.3% at £207,308 as British housing market is
    UK house prices slide for first time in almost two years, says Nationwide
  • Bank of England deputy's slip-up was astonishing – but its reaction was
    Charlotte Hogg will survive her failure to declare a conflict of interest,
    but the Bank has revealed it remains a cosy club
    Bank of England deputy's slip-up was astonishing – but its reaction was
    UK house price growth at slowest rate in four years
    Annual price rise falls to 2.3% in February as buyers become wary of paying
    UK house price growth at slowest rate in four years
    A London penthouse for £60,000. No, not to buy – that's the weekly rent
    Capital’s most expensive apartment is one of new breed of ultra-luxurious
    properties aimed at cash-splashing global super-rich
    A London penthouse for £60,000. No, not to buy – that's the weekly rent
      □ Let the councils build homes again and fix our broken housing market
        Let the councils build homes again and fix our broken housing market
      □ UK rents expected to rise faster than house prices in next five years
        UK rents expected to rise faster than house prices in next five years
      □ ‘We didn't even have room for a table’: meet the 30-somethings fleeing
        ‘We didn't even have room for a table’: meet the 30-somethings fleeing
      □ UK house prices fell in January for the first time in five months
        UK house prices fell in January for the first time in five months
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
