Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
Bahrain Grand Prix: Can we expect a duel in the desert?
Two down, 18 to go. But let's not wish the season away.
Lewis Hamilton's victory in Shanghai last weekend ignited the battle at the top
Sebastian Vettel followed up his win in Australia with second place, giving the
Will the battle in Bahrain come down to a straight fight between the two, or
will a rapid 19-year-old Dutchman by the name of Max Verstappen make it a
The Sakhir circuit attracts more than 43,000 spectators for the race. (Source:
Well, there is a good reason this race now takes place at night...
Bahrain by day is very warm, very dry and pretty devoid of atmosphere.
But come sundown, the Sakhir circuit becomes a spectacle featuring dramatically
floodlit corners, long straights, and palm trees draped in fairy lights - an
The track is in the middle of the desert, about a 40-minute drive from the
That means the racetrack is one of the dustiest anywhere on the Formula 1
calendar, despite the organisers' best attempts to 'glue' the sand down - no,
No need to check the forecast for this one - it's going to be dry. It always
But the course is hard on the brakes - high-speed straights (the longest over a
kilometre) lead up to tight hairpins and provide a great opportunity for the
crowd-pleasing sparks to make their first appearance of 2017.
Hamilton and Mercedes. Again. With no Nico Rosberg to squabble with this
season, it could be easy street for the Briton this year, especially with new
team-mate Valtteri Bottas so far not proving up to the challenge of the
But it would be wrong to think Hamilton will have everything his own way given
Speaking after the Chinese Grand Prix, Hamilton told reporters he is loving the
"He is performing at his best - he is rapid out there - so when I am able to
get ahead it is a compliment and vice-versa," he said.
A double retirement in China showed how uncompetitive the 2017 car is despite
"It will be another challenging race for us" said the Spaniard.
"The long straights don't make it easy and there's a lot for the engineers to
"Brake wear and fuel consumption is high, and set-up is tricky as the track
temperatures change a lot during the weekend, as we race later into the evening
This content will not work on your device, please check Javascript and cookies
The island of Bahrain is about the same size as Anglesey, Wales
  • Top speeds? Sebastian Vettel clocked 339.1 kilometres per hour through the
  • Overtaking potential? Turn 11 offers one of the best overtaking
    opportunities around the track while Turn 12 can be one of the most
    exciting to navigate as a driver - a fast, uphill right-hander where you
    really have to hang on. No-one has won the race from lower than fourth on
All times BST. Times are subject to change. The BBC is not responsible for any
                      Bahrain Grand Prix coverage details
     Date          Session    Time       Radio coverage         Online text
                                                                 commentary
Thursday, 13    Preview       21:00 BBC Radio 5 live and     N/A
Friday, 14      First         11:55 BBC Radio 5 live sports  From 11:25
                Second        15:55 Online only              From 15:25
Saturday, 15    Final         12:55 BBC Radio 5 live sports  From 12:25
                Qualifying    15:55 BBC Radio 5 live sports  From 14:00
Sunday, 16      Race          15:30 BBC Radio 5 live sports  From 14:30
Monday, 17      Review        04:30 BBC Radio 5 live and     N/A
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Button set to replace Alonso at Monaco
    Read more on Malaysian Grand Prix: Rain, ice cream and capsule hotels -
    Read more on Bahrain Grand Prix: Pascal Wehrlein returns to drive for
    Read more on F1 gossip: Rubens Barrichello, Alonso, Verstappen, Brawn,
    Analysis and opinion from the BBC's chief Formula 1 writer.
    Formula 1 notifications, live guide and social media
    Get the latest results and headlines sent straight to your phone, find all
    our Formula 1 coverage details with our Live Guide, sign-up to our
    newsletter and learn where to find us on online.
    New companions, new monsters and the return of an old foe
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
