Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
National Bowl: Groundsman swaps mower for kit in Welsh final
Rhys Cleverly works on the Principality Stadium pitch while wearing Caerphilly
Rhys Cleverly keeps a close eye on the Principality Stadium pitch
Rhys Cleverly was on the pitch for Wales' 2012 Grand Slam and the 2014 Heineken
Cup final - but he's never played a minute of rugby at Cardiff's Principality
Why? Because he's a groundsman at the home of Welsh rugby.
However, that is set to change with Cleverly set to pack down at hooker for
Caerphilly against Amman United in the National Bowl final on 16 April.
The Bowl is one of three games on the WRU finals day, 24 hours after the four
So Cleverly, a groundsman at the national stadium for the past eight years, has
to worry about keeping the pitch in tip-top condition as well as playing in one
"We've got five games here over two days," he said.
"On Judgement Day I'll be there at eight o'clock preparing the pitches.
"As soon as those game finish I'll be straight back on the pitch preparing it
for ours. Luckily I've got the Sunday off to play."
Watch: Scrum V goes behind the scenes with Shane Williams and Amman United
Cleverly says it will be strange mixing business with pleasure.
"I've got mixed emotions; I'll be asking myself am I coming to work or playing
Another headache for Cleverly and his team-mates will be one of the players
lining up against them for Amman United - Wales' top try scorer Shane Williams.
Williams, 40, has not played at the stadium since June 2012 - when Cleverly was
among the team looking after the pitch for Wales' 30-21 win over the
The ex-British Lion may have scored 60 international tries, but has yet to
"He's won world player of the year and class is permanent, form is temporary,"
said Caerphilly captain Gareth England. "We'll have to see what happens on
Neither team has reached the final of the bowl since its introduction in 2009.
All of the Division Three teams and Division Two north sides in the Welsh
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Button set to replace Alonso at Monaco
    Read more on Bryn Gatland: Lions coach Warren Gatland's son could face
    Read more on Sam Warburton: Blues flanker faces six- week lay-off
    Read more on Exeter expect Francis to turn down Blues bid
    How to get into rugby union - into the thick of the 15-player game or try
    rugby sevens, which made its Olympic debut in 2016.
    Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our
    newsletter and learn where to find us on online.
    Enjoy the best debate, analysis and interviews with BBC 5 live and World
    Service plus our rugby union commentary listings.
    This week's sport on the BBC includes coverage of the World Track Cycling
    Championships, the Bahrain Grand Prix and the Champions League.
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
