Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
World Championships 2017: Mark Selby faces Fergal O'Brien in first round
Venue: The Crucible Theatre, Sheffield Dates: 15 April - 1 May
Coverage: Live on BBC TV, BBC Red Button, Connected TVs and online.
Defending champion Mark Selby will face Fergal O'Brien in the first round of
Selby, 33, lifted the trophy for the second time last year with victory over
China's Ding Junhui, who comes up against fellow countryman Zhou Yuelong.
Five-time winner Ronnie O'Sullivan faces Gary Wilson, world number two Judd
Trump plays Rory McLeod and Shaun Murphy meets 17-year-old Yan Bingtao.
Selby begins his campaign on Saturday, 15 April at 10:00 BST.
O'Brien came through qualifying with a final-frame win over David Gilbert,
which included the longest frame played in professional snooker history.
"It was dragging on with so much safety being played," O'Brien, 45, told BBC
Sport. "We were on the yellow for about half an hour and there were not many
"There was so much at stake and we were fearful of making a mistake.
"It is a great occasion to play the defending champion on the opening morning.
I need to rest up and relax until then and get some practice in."
World Snooker chairman Barry Hearn described 2005 champion Murphy's tie against
Yan - who won the snooker World Cup with partner Zhou in 2015 - will become the
first player born in this millennium to compete at the Crucible, which is
Meanwhile, Anthony McGill faces Stephen Maguire in an all-Scottish tie and 2010
champion Neil Robertson plays Thailand's Noppon Saengkham, who at 72 is the
Ryan Day, the only Welshman in the draw, is up against another Chinese player
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Button set to replace Alonso at Monaco
    Read more on World Snooker Championship: Fergal O'Brien wins longest frame
    Read more on World Championship: Two-time Crucible champion Williams loses
    Read more on Reanne Evans' World Championship bid over after defeat by Lee
    Read more on World Championship 2017: Ding Junhui's dynasty & China's
    Sat 15 Apr, 10:00 BST, BBC Red Button, Connected TV & online (Tables One &
    Sat 15 Apr, 23:35 BST, BBC Two & BBC Red Button (23:45, BBC Two Wales;
    Sun 16 Apr, 00:25 BST, BBC Two & BBC Red Button (not in Scotland; 00:35,
    Pond's Forge International Sports Centre, Sheffield, 5-12 April
    New companions, new monsters and the return of an old foe
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
