Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
Dylan Hartley: British & Irish Lions call-up would be a 'bonus' for England
Dylan Hartley led England to Six Nations success last month, but their Grand
England captain Dylan Hartley says it would be a "bonus" to be selected for the
British & Irish Lions tour of New Zealand this summer.
Hartley, 31, led Eddie Jones' side to the Six Nations championship last month
and will finish the Premiership season with club side Northampton.
Lions head coach Warren Gatland names his touring party next week.
"I'm not building myself up for possibly what would be a setback in my eyes,"
"So I'm taking it as it comes. I'm happy where I am at the moment. If it comes
it is a bonus. If not then I have got other things to play for and other things
"For anyone selected I'm sure it's a great honour and I have been previously
selected, so, yes, it is a great honour, but to tour I'm sure is a great
The immediate focus for the New Zealand-born hooker is guiding Saints at least
to a European Champions Cup position in the Premiership.
Northampton are seventh in the table but level on points with Harlequins, in
And Hartley said he would not allow Gatland's imminent announcement to impact
"It's an uncontrollable," he added. "The selectors have got a pretty difficult
"What I can control is what I do this weekend against Saracens, every other
"[Representative rugby] is the bonus of playing well off the back of club rugby
or for your international side. It's not my job to worry about selection, it's
Dylan Hartley is a possible Lions call-up alongside England team-mate Owen
Hartley need only look back to 2013 to recall how much of an honour it was to
be selected for a Lions tour, but also to remember the frustration of missing
His Premiership final sending off for Northampton that year, made doubly
painful by a defeat by East Midlands rivals Leicester at Twickenham, culminated
in an 11-week ban which ruled him out of the tour to Australia.
However, he dismissed any talk of additional motivation ahead of the 2017 squad
"What motivates me is embracing what I'm doing at this stage of my life," added
"Playing professional sport for a living is a great thing to say and do, the
opportunity I've got for my family to provide and set ourselves up.
"I still enjoy it, I love the environment, whether it's the Saints dressing
room or England. When you enjoy your work it's not work.
"Set-backs always refocus me but, ultimately, because I missed out on the Lions
in 2013 doesn't motivate me to get up in the morning."
Get all the latest rugby union news by adding alerts in the BBC Sport app.
    Read more on BBC Northamptonshire News & Sport
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Button set to replace Alonso at Monaco
    Read more on Sam Warburton: Blues flanker faces six- week lay-off
    Read more on Dylan Hartley: England captain pleased to make Northampton
    Premiership, Fri 14 Apr, 19:40 BST, BBC Radio 5 live sports extra
    Rugby Union, Sun 16 Apr, 18:00 BST, BBC Two Wales
    How to get into rugby union - into the thick of the 15-player game or try
    rugby sevens, which made its Olympic debut in 2016.
    Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our
    newsletter and learn where to find us on online.
    Enjoy the best debate, analysis and interviews with BBC 5 live and World
    Service plus our rugby union commentary listings.
    This week's sport on the BBC includes coverage of the World Track Cycling
    Championships, the Bahrain Grand Prix and the Champions League.
    New companions, new monsters and the return of an old foe
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
