Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
Sir Ian Botham: Durham have County Championship point to prove
England pair Keaton Jennings and Ben Stokes remain with Durham despite
Durham chairman Sir Ian Botham says his club have a point to prove after being
relegated from County Championship Division One for financial problems.
They begin their Division Two campaign against Nottinghamshire on Friday with a
"You can feel sorry for yourself and sulk, or say 'right, we'll show you',"
"It won't be any fun for teams coming to Durham. We will be the side the rest
  • You can hear the full interview with Sir Ian Botham at 10:30 BST on Friday
    on BBC Radio 5 live sports extra, followed by ball-by-ball commentary from
Former England all-rounder Botham took charge at Chester-le-Street after Durham
The county, who finished fourth in Division One last year, accepted a -L-3.8m
As well as the County Championship sanctions, they were given a four-point
penalty in the T20 Blast, a two-point deduction in the One-Day Cup and stripped
"It's hard that the players are on minus 48 points because you are penalising
them when they have done absolutely nothing wrong," added Botham, who ended his
"They have all stood together. We have lost Scott Borthwick and Mark Stoneman
to Surrey but the rest are still here with a point to prove."
Durham, who only became a first-class county in 1992, won three County
"If we don't get out of Division Two, it won't be for the lack of trying,"
added Botham. "We could get off to a flyer and be in contention within four
"I don't give up and I don't think the players will give up. The supporters
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Button set to replace Alonso at Monaco
    Read more on Stephen Cook enthused by Durham's 'against-the-odds' promotion
    Read more on Chris Rushworth: Durham seamer positive after winter of
    Read more on County Championship 2017: Durham and champions Middlesex set
    Notifications, social media and more with BBC Sport
    Follow your team with wicket alerts, sign up to news alerts or our
    newsletter and where to find us on social media.
    How to get into cricket - physical exertion with a chess-like element in
    matches which range from half an hour to five days.
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
