Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
PFA awards: Harry Kane and Romelu Lukaku up for two prizes
Everton's Romelu Lukaku has scored 23 goals in the Premier League this season
Harry Kane and Romelu Lukaku have been nominated for both the Professional
Footballers' Association player of the year and young player awards.
They join Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Alexis Sanchez, Eden Hazard and N'Golo Kante on
Michael Keane, Leroy Sane and Jordan Pickford are up for the young player of
The winners, voted for by PFA members, will be announced on 23 April.
Women's Super League champions Manchester City have three players on the
shortlist for the women's award, with the City trio of Lucy Bronze, Jane Ross
and Jill Scott joined by Karen Carney, Ellen White and Caroline Weir.
City also provide a trio of nominees for the women's young player of the year
prize - Nikita Parris, Georgia Stanway and Keira Walsh - with Weir, Millie
Bright and Jess Carter completing the nominations.
Leicester City's Riyad Mahrez won the 2016 player of the year award, while
Manchester City forward Izzy Christiansen won the women's award.
Sunderland striker Beth Mead, 20, was named women's young player of the year.
Pick your Team of the Year from our list and share with your friends.
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Button set to replace Alonso at Monaco
Highlights & report: GB's Latham wins World Championship bronze
Read more on Highlights & report: GB's Latham wins World Championship bronze
    Read more on Riyad Mahrez: Leicester City forward named PFA Player of the
    Read more on Premier League Predictor: Play now
    Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our
    newsletter and learn where to find us on online.
    The latest rumours and stories from around the world of football.
    Enjoy the best debate, analysis and interviews with 5 live and World
    Service football plus our commentary listings.
    How to get into football - the most popular sport in the world, with clubs
    New companions, new monsters and the return of an old foe
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
