Inside Wladimir Klitschko's training camp in the Austrian Alps as he ramps up
The Ukrainian will climb into the ring against Joshua on April 29 at Wembley
 Watch NextAnthony Joshua gives fans an insight into his fra
  •  Jurgen Klopp confirms new Steven Gerrard role at 1:11
  •  Jurgen Klopp gives updates on Jordan Henderson an4:15
  •  INCREDIBLE pre-match team talk inspires Jamie O'H0:28
  •  Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp feared for Borussia D4:15
  •  Borussia Dortmund star scores insane bicycle kick0:34
  •  Luis Enrique bangs dugout and throws tantrum on t0:23
  •  Didier Drogba on his new role as a player/OWNER i0:32
  •  PFA Player of the Year award shortlist revealed1:14
David Anderson at the Wladimir Klitschko training camp​
Wladimir Klitschko is going through his paces in the Austrian Alps as he bids
to regain the world heavyweight title against Anthony Joshua.
The Ukrainian will climb into the ring against Joshua on April 29 at Wembley
And he used an analogy between himself and Mount Everest as he vows to bounce
“Please excuse me, and this may sound arrogant but, for a parallel, take Mount
Everest, the highest mountain in the world,” said the former world heavyweight
“It’s there. It’s been there for a long time and will be there for a long time.
Klitschko has a big hurdle to clear if he's to hear the words "...and the
Joshua intends to see Klitschko horizontal in the ring at Wembley in two weeks'
The ex-champion is trying to get back into the swing of things after a long
"You can climb it. You can get to the top and say, ‘I -conquered Everest!’ But
"Is Mount Everest -defeated? No, it’s still there.
“It was 27 years ago when I started, and I’m still here.
"I have guys who have conquered me at certain periods in my 68 fights. Four of
them have made it to the top out of a 21-year professional career.
“But most didn’t and, the most amazing thing is, I’m still here, they’re not.”
Klitschko, 41, deliberately refers to Fury in the past tense and says he is
The irony of their changed circumstances is not lost on him and, instead of him
being finished, Fury is the one trying to rebuild his career.
 Watch NextJurgen Klopp confirms new Steven Gerrard role at
  •  Jurgen Klopp gives updates on Jordan Henderson an4:15
  •  INCREDIBLE pre-match team talk inspires Jamie O'H0:28
  •  Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp feared for Borussia D4:15
  •  Borussia Dortmund star scores insane bicycle kick0:34
  •  Luis Enrique bangs dugout and throws tantrum on t0:23
  •  Didier Drogba on his new role as a player/OWNER i0:32
  •  PFA Player of the Year award shortlist revealed1:14
Wladimir Klitschko speaks ahead of Anthony Joshua bout
Klitschko has his hands wrapped (Photo: Rex Features)
Will the Joshua vs Klitschko scrap later this month turn out to be a
Klitschko is put through his paces (Photo: Rex Features)
Klitschko with trainer Johnathon Banks (Photo: Rex Features)
“I definitely learned more about myself and about -boxing, through that
"I don’t feel beaten. I’m sorry. I don’t feel beaten. You might disagree with
me. I lost, I didn’t do enough to win. I’m not a -destroyed man.
“It’s a done deal. The past doesn’t bother me at all. You take it as
-experience, this failure, you collect it and keep on going. I don’t think
about rematches or anything else because the man destroyed himself. I can’t
Klitschko’s antipathy for Fury is in contrast to his huge respect for
He invited the unbeaten IBF champ over to Stanglwirt to spar with him in 2014,
“He impressed me with his attitude,” said the Ukrainian. “He was always in the
background learning. Sometimes you just need to be quiet and watch, and he was
“He was very athletic and could box. I give him a lot of credit, he has great
There's a lot of mutual respect between old stager Klitschko and rising star
Klitschko hasn't fought since his shock loss to Fury 17 months ago (Photo:
Klitschko is wary of Joshua’s destructive power and has three TVs around his
ring, showing all the champion’s fights on a loop.
Obsessed is the motto of his camp and he is driven to emulate Muhammad Ali by
becoming a three-time world heavyweight champion at 41.
Only George Foreman has won the world heavyweight title at an older age.
“Some guys at my age maybe think of something else, but I’m still here, I’m
still on this hamster wheel, turning it, -spinning it at my own pace,” he
added. “Klitschko reloaded, that’s what you’re going to see.”
* Sky Sports Box Office will show Joshua v Klitschko exclusively live on April
Who will win the Anthony Joshua vs Wladimir Klitschko fight?
Subscribe to our Daily newsletterEnter email[Email address...    ]Subscribe
Liverpool FCLiverpool set to make first summer signing as they bypass academy
Jurgen Klopp has plucked the Czech keeper from Slavia Prague beating off
Champions LeagueBayern Munich 1-2 Real Madrid live score and goal updates as
Cristiano Ronaldo reaches 100 European goals with a double against 10-man hosts
Ronaldo's double saw Real come from behind against the 10-men of Bayern - with
Sky SportsGary Neville? Jamie Carragher? Alan Shearer? Every football pundit on
The very best (and worst) of the experts on BT Sport, Sky Sports, BBC and ITV…
Manchester United FCManchester United target Theo Bongonda issues come and get
The 21-year-old has helped fire the Celticos into the top half of La Liga and
Zlatan IbrahimovicZlatan Ibrahimovic expected to QUIT Manchester United if they
Europa League triumph may be needed to persuade superstar — who also wants big
Manchester United FCWhat time is Anderlecht vs Manchester United? TV channel
United return to European action on Thursday night as they travel to Belgium to
Chelsea FCBookmaker pays out on Chelsea winning the title despite Blues having
Antonio Conte's men are seven points clear of Tottenham as the season enters
Everton FCRonald Koeman gives Ross Barkley until the end of the season to
The England midfielder has yet to sign a new contract with the Merseyside club
but Koeman says a decision needs to be made before the Premier League finishes
Champions LeagueWhen is the Champions League final? All you need to know for
Who will following Real Madrid's footsteps and lift the trophy at the
Leeds United FCRevealed: Garry Monk has more wins than the last 10 Leeds United
It highlights Monk's resurgence of one of English football's best young bosses
BoobsGlamour model with 'biggest boobs in Europe' shocks fans with 'crispy
They don't call her Martina Big for nothing - the eye-popping, mahogany-tanned
German sports size 32 S breasts with "the skin of an African girl"
United AirlinesUnited Airlines staff 'forced frail grandma, 94, out of £2,800
The family of Paz Orquiza say she was left "in tears" because scandal-hit
New pound coinThe new £1 coins worth £250 - what to look for to spot the really
There are 200,000 £1 coins worth A LOT of money out there - this is what to
InstagramBoy, 13, accidentally shoots himself dead on Instagram Live as dozens
Dozens of his pals rushed to Malachi Hemphill's home after witnessing the
Weight loss success storiesWorld's heaviest woman now half the size she used to
Eman Ahmed, 36, has spent the last quarter of a century being unable to stand
up and had to be taken to hospital on a cargo plane
Coleen NolanColeen Nolan makes Paddy McGuinness gag with her cucumber party
The Take Me Out host was forced to turn away when Coleen put her mouth to the
Chelsea FCBookmaker pays out on Chelsea winning the title despite Blues having
Antonio Conte's men are seven points clear of Tottenham as the season enters
Nintendo SwitchNintendo Switch games REVEALED as Mario and Sonic add to the
The Nintendo Direct announcement took place this week and the gaming company
Everton FCRonald Koeman gives Ross Barkley until the end of the season to
The England midfielder has yet to sign a new contract with the Merseyside club
but Koeman says a decision needs to be made before the Premier League finishes
Donald TrumpHealth inspectors found 13 violations in Donald Trump's Mar A Lago
Three of the violations were deemed ‘high priority’, meaning they could lead to
illness-causing bacteria - including salmonella and E.coli - on food served to
Metropolitan PoliceInnocent man chased and beaten on UK's busiest high street
The 36-year-old was forced to the floor after a woman claimed he had used a
shopping bag to place a recording device between her legs
SyriaBashar Al-Assad describes Syrian chemical attack as '100% fabrication'
The President accused of "flagrantly poisoning his own people" insisted he has
no chemical weapons - and said videos of dying children may be faked
WeatherSnow more likely at Easter than Christmas as hail and sleet threaten
A white easter could be seen in parts of the country as a 1,000-mile wide
Icelandic air plume brings a showery and frosty holiday weekend chill
SyriaVladimir Putin's envoy angrily clashes with British ambassador at UN over
UN Ambassador Matthew Rycroft had accused Russia of siding with "a murderous,
barbaric criminal, rather than with their international peers"
HollyoaksHollyoaks' Freddie Roscoe is leaving as the show reveals the news in a
Eagle eyed viewers spotted the sneaky farewell to the soap favourite
Lincolnshire PoliceMissing mum-of-two's body found by police in £400,000 home
TWO DAYS after husband was discovered dead at same property
Primary school teacher Bernice Williams was declared missing before she was
found dead last Sunday - 48 hours after her husband's body was discovered
Food poisoningGirl, 4, is still ill two years after contracting salmonella
Scarlett Barnes began to suffer two days after the meal - and has been in pain
for the last 24 months and now suffers from a prolapsed bowel
TaxIs it illegal to pay someone in cash – and what are the consequences if you
Handymen, gardeners, cleaners and others frequently offer a lower price if you
pay in cash – but are you breaking the law if you go down that route? We spoke
Donald TrumpDonald Trump says US and Russia will "come to their senses" and
Despite both countries saying their relationship is at rock bottom, Trump said
PoliticsThis is the bizarre way the Tories decide if you're an 'ordinary
Guess what - you're probably not an Ordinary Working Family. So why not, and
why is the Tories' new grammar schools buzzword a problem? We've looked at the
TaxThe reasons why life costs much more for Brits who have 'no money'
NHS'I had to go to the toilet 15 times before work': One woman's battle with
Rachel Taylor has battled debilitating IBS since she was a teenager and at some
points the situation was so bad she could barely leave the house
Liverpool FCLiverpool set to make first summer signing as they bypass academy
Jurgen Klopp has plucked the Czech keeper from Slavia Prague beating off
Champions LeagueBayern Munich 1-2 Real Madrid live score and goal updates as
Cristiano Ronaldo reaches 100 European goals with a double against 10-man hosts
Ronaldo's double saw Real come from behind against the 10-men of Bayern - with
Sky SportsGary Neville? Jamie Carragher? Alan Shearer? Every football pundit on
The very best (and worst) of the experts on BT Sport, Sky Sports, BBC and ITV…
Manchester United FCManchester United target Theo Bongonda issues come and get
The 21-year-old has helped fire the Celticos into the top half of La Liga and
Zlatan IbrahimovicZlatan Ibrahimovic expected to QUIT Manchester United if they
Europa League triumph may be needed to persuade superstar — who also wants big
Arsene WengerArsene Wenger closer to extending Arsenal reign as he starts
Previously tight-lipped manager breaking his silence could leave the Gunners'
Premier LeaguePremier League run-in: Who do each of the top six have to play
Tottenham are refusing to give up the chase on Chelsea while Arsenal and the
Manchester clubs are battling it out for the remaining Champions League
PFA Player of the Year awardPFA Player of the Year award shortlist revealed:
The shortlists for the Young Player of the Year, Women's Player of the Year and
Women's Young Player of the Year awards have also been revealed
Bastian SchweinsteigerBastian Schweinsteiger set for return to Manchester to
say United goodbyes - and could play in Michael Carrick's testimonial
The German left Old Trafford without saying a proper goodbye and will endeavour
Mamadou SakhoJurgen Klopp reveals there could be a scramble for Mamadou Sakho's
Sakho has been earning rave reviews for Crystal Palace following his loan
switch to Selhurst Park back in January but the Eagles do not have a clause to
make the move a permanent one at the end of the season
Premier LeagueRevealed: The one player at each Premier League club who sums up
We set ourselves a target of summing up every Premier League club's season via
the medium of just one player, and here's what we came up with
Anthony JoshuaREVEALED: Anthony Joshua's 5,000-calorie diet that is fuelling
Undefeated Joshua faces his biggest fight on April 29 when he takes on
Paulo DybalaMan United, Barcelona and Real Madrid target Paulo Dybala signs new
Dybala's new deal, which runs until 2022, is understood to be worth more than
PFA Footballer of the YearThe big debate: N'Golo Kante leads PFA Player of the
Year shortlist - but which other stars should have made the cut?
Our reporters select their top picks for those also deserving of a place in the
Golden Boy awardGolden Boy shortlist: 14 Premier League players included among
The award, which began in 2003, goes to the young footballer playing in Europe
PaulinhoFormer Tottenham star Paulinho in hot water after posing with Japanese
The Guangzhou Evergrande midfielder could face deportation due to gambling
Manchester United FC6 strikers Manchester United could target if Zlatan
The Swede could leave Old Trafford this summer if the Red Devils fail to
PFA Footballer of the Year6 players who should be on PFA Player of the Year
The nominations are in and, well, the stats disagree with some of the panels
AC MilanImminent sale of AC Milan to Chinese investors paves way for spending
Silvio Berlusconi and his Fininvest company are set to receive the final £314m
Andy MurrayFormer Premier League stars Louis Saha and Sylvain Distin have
World No.1 Murray is ready to make his court comeback at the Monte Carlo Open
This website uses cookies. Using this website means you are okay with this but
you can find out more and learn how to manage your cookie choices here.Close
