  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
AirPods review: the best non-isolating wireless earbuds, but only for Apple
Apple has cut the cable from its EarPods, improving sound, fit and connectivity
– but the AirPods lack noise-cancelling and easy controls
[ ] Apple’s AirPods are a great choice for truly wireless earbuds if you own an
Apple device and do not like isolating earphones. Photograph: Stephen Lam/Getty
AirPods review: the best non-isolating wireless earbuds, but only for Apple
Apple has cut the cable from its EarPods, improving sound, fit and connectivity
– but the AirPods lack noise-cancelling and easy controls
Wednesday 25 January 2017 08.25 GMT Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
When Apple removed the traditional headphone socket from its latest iPhone,
part of the rationale was that wireless headphones were now coming into the
mainstream. And Apple had its own player in this field, its AirPods.
But then there was an unexpected delay in their launch, raising fears over
technical issues. Now they’re finally here, are they worth the £159 price tag?
The AirPods are not the first wireless earbuds on the market, but until the
start of 2016 they all had a cable joining the right and left earbud.
Now there’s a new breed of entirely wireless earbuds, but most of them don’t
really work. In my testing, only Bragi’s the Headphone and Jabra’s Elite Sport
wireless earbuds can keep a connection between themselves.
Apple reckons it’s got that particular problem licked with a new processing
chip called the W1, which regulates the connection between the earbuds and to
The AirPods look like EarPods with the cable cut and the slightly thicker
If you’ve ever seen a set of Apple’s iPhone earphones, the EarPods, you know
what the AirPods look and feel like. If you took the EarPods, cut the cables
off, made the stalks a little thicker and ever so slightly changed that odd bud
It’s a conscious design decision that you’re either going to like or hate. They
perch in your ear, unlike isolating so-called canal buds that wedge themselves
in your ear canal, with the stalks going down past your earlobes.
The fit is closer to an open, traditional earphone from the early 2000s than
the modern canal-fitting earphone. As such, they don’t isolate you from the
world around you at all. You can hear everything, even if you push them hard
As a consequence you have to have the music really quite loud to be able to
hear it if you’re trying to block out the rest of your train, plane or bus
commute. At work in an office, they offer almost no refuge from the chatter of
But, compared to the EarPods, they leak a lot less sound. So while you can hear
everything, you won’t be subjecting those around you to an impromptu tinny
disco. They still bleed a little at high volume, but Apple’s done the rest of
the world a favour by stopping one of the most annoying things of a modern
Face on the AirPods are difficult to see, hidden by your face, but side on
they’re quite pronounced. Photograph: Jonathan Haynes for the Guardian
The fit is relatively comfortable, but I found they hurt my ears a little after
about an hour wearing them. The AirPods are very light and do not drop out of
my ears, no matter how hard I shake my head, but neither would a set of EarPods
Running while wearing them in the cold wasn’t a problem, but as I became sweaty
they started to slip back from my ear canal and became much quieter. They
didn’t come out but how secure they are in your ear relies heavily on the shape
For some people I asked to try out the AirPods, they dropped out of their ears
almost immediately after they started getting up from a seat or turning their
If the EarPods fit and stay in your ear, the AirPods will likely fit as well or
slightly better without the drag of the cable. If they don’t you won’t have any
It’s also worth noting that the stalks of the AirPods bash into medium-sized
shape earrings, meaning that you might have change your style to accommodate
Control centre integration means you can switch between the AirPods and other
outputs at will. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
The AirPods sound surprisingly good given the lack of a proper seal in the ear,
with relatively full bass and much less of the punishing treble that’s the
Like most other wireless earbuds, they’re nowhere near as big a step up in
quality as a set of wired earbuds costing similar. The AirPods definitely sound
better than the EarPods, with more bass than Bragi’s the Headphone, but less
separation and distinction between instruments and sounds. They sound similar
to a good £40 – 60 pair wired earbuds. I was pleasantly surprised.
Call quality was also pretty good. Although I had to crank up the volume to
hear the other end, they could hear me loud and clear even when walking along a
Double tap to activate Siri or take them out to pause or play the music.
Apple’s gone for simplicity with the AirPods, which means no buttons. In fact,
there’s only one thing you can do with them once they’re in your lugholes:
double tap them to either fire up Siri or pause or play music, depending on
what you’ve got as default in settings (when connected to a non-Apple device
Connected to an Apple device, when you take one or both out of your ears the
music pauses and resumes when you put it back in. Volume adjustment, track
skipping or anything else has to either be done via Siri, which is incredibly
tedious and requires a good internet connection to work, or by pulling out your
It feels a bit like Apple built the AirPods for people who own Apple Watches,
because volume and play controls can be done via the wrist. Most other wireless
earbuds have buttons or gestures for play controls and volume at the very
least, and not having even tap gestures to skip tracks and change the volume
Apple AirPods being paired with an iPhone. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the
The AirPods make and maintain a strong connection to other Apple products. To
pair them all you need to do is open the case that they come in close to an
iPhone for the first time and confirm that you want to connect them.
That pairing is then shared via iCloud to your other Apple devices, should you
use iCloud and have an iPad or a Mac. Switching between devices is as simple as
prompting a connection from the tablet, smartphone or computer you want to use.
The AirPods appear within MacOS’s menu bar, for instance, or the devices menu
in Command Centre. Select them, wait for the small bong and you’re ready to go.
Connected to an Apple device, the connection is absolutely bulletproof,
reaching at least 10m and resisting interference as if it’s not there. The
AirPods also don’t suffer from the small lag most Bluetooth headphones do when
connected to Apple devices, which is only noticeable when you’re watching video
and the lipsync is slightly out. They can also be used one at a time for mono
On iOS, most other Bluetooth headphones require a trip into the settings app to
pair, and God forbid you have to try and connect them to a Mac – the Bluetooth
audio handling has been terrible for years and simply not worth even attempting
Press the button on the back of the case to initiate pairing to a non-Apple
Things are different if you want to connect the AirPods to a non-Apple device.
A button on the case puts the earbuds into pairing mode when held for a second
or so, so you can find them and pair them manually.
Many other good Bluetooth headphones have one-touch Bluetooth pairing – just
tap your Android device on a particular spot and you’re done. But that
particularly Bluetooth convenience has yet to make it to completely wireless
The AirPods’ connection to an Android device such as a Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge
or Google Pixel XL is also not as stable as it is to an iPhone, occasionally
suffering from skips rather than the cutouts that plague earbuds such as the
They also do not pause the music when you take them out of your ears, and you
cannot activate Google Assistant or Cortana using them – a double tap simply
The little green LED shows you the case charge level. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs
Wireless earbuds are easier to lose so almost all come with some kind of case
that charges them, either when plugged in or with an internal battery. Apple’s
is arguably the best designed of the lot. It’s small, the earbuds slot in, held
in place by magnets, and it provides up to 24 hours of running time, or about
It charges via Lightning, and snaps shut with a satisfying click. The only
thing missing is a battery indicator on the outside of the case, although there
is a little LED just under the lid that flashes red when its out of juice.
Apple reckons you get five hours of listening between trips in the case and up
to 24 hours of battery life between the buds and the case, which is about right
in my testing. I used them for a week between charges, listening to about five
For comparison, most others only get under 10 hours of battery life between
charges, so what Apple’s managed here is quite remarkable.
  • Siri adjusts the volume one click at a time, which gets old really quickly
  • Like most Bluetooth headphones and earbuds, the AirPods emit a little chime
  • The stalks hit earrings and the tops of coats or macs done up around the
    neck causing a loud tap or brushing noise in your ear
  • Their while colour and stick-out stalks attract attention in your ear, much
  • There is a feature that lets you see on a map where you last had your
    AirPods, if you happen to lose them, within the Find My iPhone app on iOS
The AirPods cost £159. For comparison, Bragi’s the Headphone cost £125 and
In some ways I love the AirPods. Apple’s W1 chip really does what it claims:
solves Bluetooth connectivity issues that have plagued all but a few truly
wireless earbuds, and with excellent battery life too. The case is also
brilliant and I don’t even mind the stalk-like design.
But it is Apple’s EarPod like bud design that I cannot get on with. They sound
OK, but the lack of any sort of isolation makes listening to music or podcasts
The problem is accentuated by the lack of instant volume controls. When you hit
the busy street you need to crank them up to not miss anything, but when you
emerge into the relative serenity of the office they suddenly sound deafening.
I would pay twice the asking price for a set of canal-bud AirPods with proper
For those who cannot get on with canal buds or really love EarPods, the AirPods
are the best wireless earbuds going, but their advantages are quickly lost when
For everyone else, there are already viable and similarly priced isolating
alternatives available, and many more are expected this year. The new Bluetooth
5.0 specification released at the end of 2016 should also provide many of the
advantages of Apple’s W1 chip, but for non-Apple devices, although it is
unknown how long a wait there will be for both smartphones and earbuds using
    Pros: rock-solid connection, brilliant case, long battery life, seamless
    connection between multiple Apple devices, no lag or lipsync issues, good
    Cons: no isolation, less stable when connected to non-Apple devices, lack
    of controls, reliance on Siri requiring an internet connection
Once paired with an iPhone, the AirPods are automatically available to any
other Apple device logged into iCloud, and are one of the first Bluetooth
headphones that aren’t infuriating to use with a Mac. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs
  • I tried every set of wireless earbuds until I found some that worked, so
  • Five of the best Bluetooth headphones to break free of cables
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
