  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Brian likes to have everything on his own Windows PC and doesn’t want to share
anything with others. Can he avoid using the cloud?
[ ] ‘I have a feeling that Microsoft and others want everyone to sign up to the
cloud.’ Photograph: Chris Clor/Getty Images/Blend Images RM
Brian likes to have everything on his own Windows PC and doesn’t want to share
anything with others. Can he avoid using the cloud?
Thursday 30 March 2017 10.03 BST Last modified on Thursday 30 March 2017 
    How long will I be able to continue avoiding the cloud? I mean things like
    Microsoft accounts (my computers all use Windows 10), Facebook, Google and
    so on. I like everything to be stored on my computer and I don’t need to
    “share” stuff with others, but I have a feeling that Microsoft and others
It’s almost impossible to avoid the cloud now, because of the movement of
commercial and government services to the web, the multiplication of computing
devices and the rapid growth in smartphones. These different trends reinforce
There’s nothing new about moving services online: the first online shopping
service appeared in 1984. Billions of websites, email services and applications
are now cloud-based. Many of them run from giant cloud server farms such as
Amazon’s AWS (Amazon Web Services), Microsoft Azure and the Google Cloud
Many of the things people used to do offline are now done via cloud services.
Streaming music, video and TV services are gradually replacing DVD players,
standalone hi-fis and MP3 players. Some of us still prefer CDs and Blu-ray BDs
for their quality and reliability, but we’d all miss BBC iPlayer, Netflix and
You’re not obliged to use social networks, and there are alternatives to Google
/Microsoft such as DuckDuckGo, ProtonMail and Zoho Workplace. But taken
literally, “avoiding the cloud” would mean avoiding all of those as well.
Computers used to be so expensive that only governments and large corporations
could afford them. Since the 1970s, however, microprocessors have made computer
power cheaper and cheaper. This led to a sort of Cambrian explosion of digital
The desktop PC, which democratised personal computing, was a multi-purpose
device. People used the same PC for word processing and accounting etc, doing
email, playing music and games, and much more. Today, people often have half a
dozen devices for different purposes. These can include desktop and laptop PCs,
smartphones and tablets, television set-top boxes, media servers and games
To those we can add even more devices such as smart TV sets and digital radios,
home security systems, electricity meters and thermostats, doorbells, fitness
bands and interactive assistants such as Amazon’s Echo and Google Home. People
who hype the Internet of Things see few limits to the expansion of the smart
gadget market. The idea of a computerised toothbrush, kettle or toaster does
Given that people have, or will have, a plethora of intelligent devices, they
will certainly need a way to monitor and control them, receive error messages,
and synchronise data between them. You’re not going to do that without the
Cloud usage exploded after the iPhone was launched in 2007. Photograph: Andy
Many people started to use handheld phones in the 1990s. It started a boom in
SMS text messaging, and soon people were doing email on their phones, too –
often with a RIM Blackberry. In the early 2000s, a few hardy souls even used
The market started to explode after the launch of the Apple iPhone in 2007. The
smartphone changed the cell-phone into another computing device, just like a PC
but with a small screen. You could use it to browse the web, and it had wifi to
connect to home networks and the internet for free. Web service providers
catered to the new market with mobile (and, later, “responsive”) websites, and
Smartphones are now cloud-integrated devices. They are monitored and updated
from the cloud, and the cloud is used to install and update apps, collect
photos and data for longer-term storage, and to provide streaming media,
messaging and other online services. These include intelligent assistants, such
as Apple’s Siri and Microsoft’s Cortana. You can still buy “feature phones”,
but if you use a smartphone, you’re using the cloud.
In the early 1990s, when sales of Microsoft Windows 3 started to take off,
Microsoft had a vision of “Windows Everywhere”. Where some other firms had
different operating system for different devices (IBM had at least five just
for minicomputers), Microsoft intended to run everything on Windows. That meant
Windows had to grow and adapt for different functions – hence things like
With the world going mobile, Windows had to go mobile as well. Microsoft made
that leap with the touch tablet-oriented Windows 8 and Windows Phone. Today,
Windows 10 runs on everything from thumbdrive PCs, smartphones and tablets to
laptops and desktops, plus the Xbox One games console. Some of Windows 10’s
features have come directly from the smartphone world, including notifications,
sandboxed apps, the cloud-based Windows Store and Cortana.
Window 10 also switched to the rapid data-driven software development that is
common to mobiles and large websites like Gmail and Facebook. There will never
be another “big bang” upgrade where Windows 10 is replaced by Window 11. Not
everyone likes that, but Microsoft is doing what it has always done: moving
with the times. It doesn’t want to be left behind, like IBM, or in the computer
Windows 10 is Microsoft’s bid for relevance in an ever-changing age.
A few years ago, you could think of the PC market as a battle between Windows,
MacOS and Linux, even though Microsoft had 95% of it. Today, the battle is
between the three major ecosystems owned by Apple, Google and Microsoft.
(Amazon is becoming the fourth player.) Each ecosystem bridges different
devices, applications and services, including an app store. Each requires an
account linked to an email address, though both Apple and Microsoft let you use
Apple’s ecosystem is based on selling high-margin Apple hardware and,
increasingly, digital media and services such as Apple Music. (Providing iTunes
for Windows was a trade-off that was originally required to sell more iPods,
and there’s also an iCloud app for Windows.) There’s not much Apple hardware to
choose from, but it’s all intended to work together with iCloud.
Google’s ecosystem is based on doing everything online, preferably via its
Chrome web browser on PCs, tablets and smartphones. It has marketed some
hardware, including smartphones, tablets and Chromebooks, and it’s trying to
ramp up its cloud platform. However, it still makes almost all of its money
Microsoft’s ecosystem is based on selling Windows-related software and
services, but unlike Google, it lets you work “on premise” with your own PCs,
servers and software or online with Office 365 and OneDrive. Unlike Apple, it
doesn’t care who makes the hardware you use. (Remember that Microsoft was the
Mac’s biggest supporter when it was launched in 1984, and Microsoft Office
first appeared on the Mac.) Today, Microsoft has dozens of apps for Apple iOS
and Android smartphones and tablets, and it’s hosting Linux in its Azure cloud
and in Windows 10. (See How to Install and Use the Linux Bash Shell on Windows
Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella’s mantra is “mobile-first, cloud-first” rather than
“Windows Everywhere”, and that’s where he’s steering the company.
In sum, you can’t avoid the cloud completely, unless you give up your internet
connection and swap your smartphone for a dumb one. Of course, you will have
difficulty updating Windows 10, and might consider switching to Linux, which
If you plan to stay online and use a smartphone, then best accept that Windows
10 benefits from cloud integration and exploit the cross-platform apps and
online services. There are far worse things to worry about, including what Al
Gore called the web’s “stalker economy”, British and American government
Have you got another question for Jack? Email it to Ask.Jack@theguardian.com
    Digital service will let motorists view a ‘representation’ of their
    licence, but DVLA stresses it will not replace plastic licence
    Should news publishers ditch their websites and go mobile-only?
    As two newspapers decide to go online-only, Matt McAlister looks to the
    Should news publishers ditch their websites and go mobile-only?
    Spare Rib goes digital: 21 years of radical feminist magazine put online
    British Library project succeeds in publishing digital archive of all 239
    editions, charting grassroots movement, after callout to contributors
    Spare Rib goes digital: 21 years of radical feminist magazine put online
    Decision by Time Inc to make fashion title digital-only puts jobs under
      □ Another first for the Independent as it plots a digital-only future
        Another first for the Independent as it plots a digital-only future
      □ When the UK goes 'digital by default', who will be left behind?
        When the UK goes 'digital by default', who will be left behind?
      □ India’s all-female paper goes digital to make gender taboos old news
        India’s all-female paper goes digital to make gender taboos old news
      □ Credits roll on-air for the final time as BBC3 becomes online only
        Credits roll on-air for the final time as BBC3 becomes online only
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
