  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Five video games that teach you how to be better at video games
If you want to be a better all-rounder, practising any of these acclaimed and
Overwatch, which helps players master special abilities, the use of maps and
[ ] Overwatch, which helps players master special abilities, the use of maps
and how to exploit enemy weaknesses. Photograph: Blizzard
Five video games that teach you how to be better at video games
If you want to be a better all-rounder, practising any of these acclaimed and
Monday 10 April 2017 13.33 BST Last modified on Monday 10 April 2017 13.35 BST
Most video-game fans tend to get into habits when we play. We favour certain
genres, and then we play them in a certain way. Some people will buy any
military shooter that comes out, then spend 20 hours running madly into
gunfire, armed with a default assault rifle. Others will spend hours sneaking
around an open-world adventure, planning every attack from the safety of
distant bush. Most games are built so that they seamlessly accommodate those
But a few either actively seek to wrench you out of your comfort zone, or are
so varied and interesting that they make you want to try new things. Fewer
still are so beautifully designed they provide you with truly transferable
skills, allowing you to take the things you’ve learned to a variety of
Here are five titles that belong in that category – they’re great games in
their own right, but they also teach you skills, approaches and ideas that will
make you a better player in general. Play any of these for these for a few
hours and you’ll emerge a better person ... or at least a person better at
providing covering fire, zonal marking or bone-crunching ultra combos. And who
Blizzard’s superb online shooter teaches most of the basic skills you need to
become a competent player of first-person shooters. You learn about different
weapon types, about how to move safely through a contested environment and
about the need to practise and master maps so that you can anticipate where
attacks are likely to come from. On top of this, however, it also teaches you
about mastering special abilities – and exploiting specific enemy weaknesses –
which is useful for all action adventure titles. And it does all this in a
(mostly) friendly and welcoming environment where novice players can really
contribute to their side’s victory without feeling like hopeless newbies.
Both Forza Motorsport and Gran Turismo provide decent novice driving aids to
get your cornering, acceleration and overtaking techniques up to scratch.
However Project Cars makes things much more accessible and wide-ranging by
featuring a huge range of racing styles, vehicles and disciplines and making
them all available from the outset. The handling has been criticised by some
for being too ‘game-like’ rather than providing a pure simulation. But for
newcomers looking to garner transferable racing skills, the range, variety and
accessibility of driving experiences is excellent.
Although it has since been superseded by the visually beautiful Street Fighter
V, Capcom’s 2008 iteration remains the place to come if you want to learn
fighting game techniques and mechanics. It features all eight of the classic
Street Fighter II characters, adds some interesting newcomers and offers a
range of compelling playmodes to practise and develop moves. It’s also arguably
more balanced and complex than its follow-up, supporting an array of playstyles
via its traditional six-button interface. Spending time on a couple of
characters in SFIV, learning their focus attacks and ultra combos, will give
you a useful crash course is attack and defence strategies.
This rocket car-based soccer sim may look like a crazy free-for-all when you
start out, but watch pro players for a few minutes and you’ll learn that its
actually a tactically rich team sport. Learning about positioning, taking on
different roles and perfecting the handbrake turn and jump/strafe moves all
help you to develop into a well-rounded team sports player. The lessons you
pick up here about supporting other players and ensuring zonal dominance will
be applicable to multiplayer Fifa sessions as well as team-based online
Super Mario Galaxy – the most recent true sequel to Super Mario 64. Photograph:
With this legendary 1996 platformer, Nintendo effectively invented most of the
tropes and traits that have defined 3D action adventure games ever since.
Playing Super Mario 64 now (or any of its updates or direct sequels – e.g.
Super Mario Sunshine or Super Mario Galaxy 1 or 2) will teach you valuable
lessons about navigating polygonal environments, discovering secrets and
dealing with enemies. The visual language of the Super Mario series is so rich,
detailed and intuitive, playing Super Mario is like learning to read and speak
in a new form of spatial communication. The only problem is, after playing and
mastering these titles, you’ll be forever pointing out the weaknesses of other
If you have any other suggestions, add them in the comments section below.
  • 10 most influential games consoles – in pictures
  • Nintendo Switch: everything you need to know about the console
  • The six worst US presidents in video game history
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
