  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
13 games that will change the way you think about gaming
Featuring telephones, mirrors, twine and, yes, even screens, the Now Play This
festival explores the far edges of game design - here’s the best bits
Morning Makeup Madness, one of the games on display at Now Play This.
[ ] Morning Makeup Madness, one of the games on display at Now Play This.
13 games that will change the way you think about gaming
Featuring telephones, mirrors, twine and, yes, even screens, the Now Play This
festival explores the far edges of game design - here’s the best bits
Tuesday 11 April 2017 12.10 BST First published on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
Now Play This is a festival of experimental games. Spread throughout several
rooms of the New Wing of Somerset House, and running as part of the London
games festival, it reflects what happens when we stop worrying about the
artistic or commercial validity of the medium. Curated by game designers Holly
Gramazio and George Buckenham, it’s about collecting experiences that offer
This year’s event featured games in a variety of formats: tabletop, physical,
digital, augmented reality, virtual reality and new sports. There were
experimental interfaces and there were fascinating intersections between space
and content. One game, Joy is Here, covered all the walls in a giant word
Here are 13 of the most interesting things we saw:
Dead Pixels (Tatiana Vilela dos Santos and Olivier Drouet)
Dead Pixels. Photograph: Jordan Erica Webber for the Guardian
One of the best things about an event like Now Play This is that you get to
experience games that are meant to be played by large groups – like the two- to
nine-player Dead Pixels. Each participant stands at a plinth and uses a
joystick to move a coloured square around a canvas, leaving a trail behind it.
A closed shape of one colour automatically fills, while drawing over another
colour produces a dead (black) pixel. The game ends after 99 seconds or when
the canvas is full, and the colour with the largest area covered wins. While we
were playing, one girl led her entire family team to successive victories,
Poem Game. Photograph: Jordan Erica Webber for the Guardian
On Friday evening, a group of people gathered to play artist Liliane Lijn’s
1974 Poem Game. Each player (most of whom weren’t born when it was created) was
handed a few coloured cards with one word on each side and took turns to either
place one on the table or move/flip one already placed, and then read the
current words in whichever direction they liked. As the words spread in all
directions, a loose collective narrative began to build, until Lijn instructed
the players to flip all the cards and read the result, fulfilling the stated
intention of the game to “free the players from preconceived ideas of what a
Invisible Garden (Rosa Carbo-Mascarell and Tim Phillips)
Invisible Garden. Photograph: Rosa Carbo-Mascarell for the Guardian
Several attendees enjoyed the uncommonly warm weather by trying this game which
used the exterior of Somerset House to calming effect. Players donned a
handmade hat that hid a pair of headphones and a phone, and through
geolocation, could wander the sunny courtyard hearing the changing sounds of a
walk through a meadow – birds, frogs, and a babbling brook – rather than the
Restless Spirit Projector (Viviane Schwarz and Jonatan Van Hove with Amber Hsu)
One of the most popular rooms was introduced with a plaque that read simply,
“This room is haunted.” Engulfed in darkness, players used hand mirrors to
reflect ghosts (projected sprites) into a trap (a light-detecting orb), pairing
them up according to physical clues left around the room – and occasionally
removed by the designer Viviane Schwarz – like a notebook filled with
handwritten and illustrated stories about the ghosts in question.
Vaccination. Photograph: Jordan Erica Webber for the Guardian
Vaccination was also part of the Leftfield Collection at Rezzed, but here was
just one of many games with unique interfaces, if a particularly fun and
impressive one. One player watches a monitor that shows microorganisms of
various colours creep from a patient’s extremities to their heart. The other
plugs a physical injector-shaped device into holes on a board to gather
medicine and inject it into the head, limbs, or torso. Like a medicalised
version of the popular Horde mode in shooter games, the patient always dies
Thread Racer. Photograph: Jordan Erica Webber for the Guardian
The play space for Thread Racer was a vertical board with a grid of pins, which
players wrapped thread around to create a race track, and then used joysticks
to navigate two dots of light around the track, jumping back to the start if
they bumped into the thread. While it fell prey to predictable wear and tear
that meant it didn’t function entirely as intended, this was a fun little
experience that demonstrated creativity on the part of both designers and
Telephone. Photograph: Jordan Erica Webber for the Guardian
Lee Shang Lun is perhaps best known for his work on puzzle games Sokobond and
Stickets, but Telephone is an entirely different experience. Commissioned for
this event as part of the 10 Second Room, its physical presence is nothing more
than an old-fashioned telephone on a plinth. Players who picked up the phone
would hear a prompt – “What’s the grossest thing you would do for £10?” “What
are five names you wouldn’t give your children?” – and their spoken replies
were recorded, rearranged, and sent to another phone in a bar in Melbourne for
Morning Makeup Madness. Photograph: Jordan Erica Webber for the Guardian
Another 10-second game is Jenny Jiao Hsia’s Morning Makeup Madness, in which
you have 10 seconds to apply lipstick, blush, mascara, eyeliner, and eyeshadow
to roughly the right places on a cute representation of a reflected face. At
the end you’re given a percentage score, perhaps 10% “no makeup look” or 60%
“hot mess”. It was hard to do particularly well with the joysticks at the
event, but you can play it in your browser with a mouse and keyboard.
Sandcastles. Photograph: Jordan Erica Webber for the Guardian
One 10-second game that took a more poignant look at the passing of time was
Sandcastles. Players dragged fingers along a touch screen to pull castles of
various shapes and sizes from the sand, but every 10 seconds the sea would come
Pink Trombone. Photograph: Jordan Erica Webber for the Guardian
Perhaps of particular fascination to singers, Pink Trombone is an interactive
simulation of human vocalisation. Presented with a side-on representation of a
human nose, mouth and throat, players can move the various parts to make
different vocal sounds. Besides actually being pretty informative, it is a cute
and fun interactive toy that you can play with in your browser now.
Another game that’s playable now is Wish Fishing, from Pol Clarissou of the
Klondike collective. However, this fortune-telling game was improved by the
addition of a physical element. The player types a question, the person on
screen casts their fishing line, and an answer appears in the form of unicode
symbols. Normally, one has to find the meanings in a text file that comes with
the game, but at Now Play This the desk was covered with cards with a symbol on
Agata Nawrot is a talented illustrator from Poland, and Karambola is her first
game. It’s an impressive debut, beautiful and more substantial than you might
expect. The story is that “evil bird-thoughts” have attacked several “emotional
fruit people”, who’ve become separated and withdrawn into their own problems,
which the player must then solve. Each is simple but different, ranging from
helping some ginger find its way to plucking the right tune on a spruce cone’s
kalimba, and the whole thing is tied together beautifully.
KAMI 2. Photograph: Jordan Erica Webber for the Guardian
One of the most popular games at the event, possibly because it was spread
throughout the venue, was KAMI 2, from the BAFTA-winning State of Play. In this
puzzle game for mobiles, you are presented with coloured patterns made of
triangles and a palette of the relevant colours, and your task is to colour the
entire canvas the same shade in a certain number of steps. At the festival,
prints of some of these puzzles were hung on the walls, and people used an
augmented-reality feature within the game to play, holding up their phones such
that passersby frequently thought they were taking photos and ducked to cross
between them. Whether or not that was an intentional feature of the design, it
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
