  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Ex-Google self-driving engineer secretly collaborated with competitors, suit
New details emerge in Google lawsuit that alleges former employee Anthony
Levandowski plotted to steal trade secrets and take them to Uber
Waymo, the self-driving car company owned by Google’s parent Alphabet, filed
the suit against Uber in February, accusing the company of ‘calculated theft’
[ ] Waymo, the self-driving car company owned by Google’s parent Alphabet,
filed the suit against Uber in February, accusing the company of ‘calculated
theft’ of its technology. Photograph: Eric Risberg/AP
Ex-Google self-driving engineer secretly collaborated with competitors, suit
New details emerge in Google lawsuit that alleges former employee Anthony
Levandowski plotted to steal trade secrets and take them to Uber
Tuesday 4 April 2017 00.50 BST Last modified on Tuesday 4 April 2017 12.48 BST
A former Google employee secretly collaborated with competing self-driving car
companies for years before allegedly stealing trade secrets and bringing the
proprietary technology to Uber, according to a new court filing.
Anthony Levandowski – now head of Uber’s self-driving program and a key player
in Google’s high-profile intellectual property lawsuit against Uber – collected
$120m in “incentive payments” from Google, according to the claim, “all while
he was breaching his obligations to Google and building a company that would
compete with Google”. The filing also alleges that while at Google, he helped
the company investigate one of two competing firms with which he was involved.
Who is Anthony Levandowski, and why is Google suing him?
The filing provides new details about Google’s case against Levandowski,
suggesting that his alleged plot to steal trade secrets involved his
clandestine association with the side companies dating back to 2012. The claims
have come to light a week after Levandowski invoked his fifth amendment right,
with his lawyers stating in court that there is “potential for criminal
Waymo, the self-driving car company owned by Google’s parent Alphabet, first
filed the suit against Uber in February, accusing the ride-share company of
engaging in the “calculated theft” of its technology. The complaint claimed
that Levandowski downloaded “sensitive, secret, and valuable internal Waymo
information” before leaving to start his own self-driving truck company, Otto,
The lawsuit, which could be a fatal setback for Uber’s self-driving car
ambitions, stems from Waymo’s proprietary LiDAR system, which are the “eyes”
the cars use to observe and respond to the world around the vehicles.
Spokespeople for Google and Uber declined to comment, and a lawyer for
Levandowski did not respond to a request for comment.
Google lawsuit could be a fatal setback for Uber's self-driving dreams
The filing claimed that Levandowski was previously involved in two enterprises
known as Odin Wave and Tyto Lidar. Odin Wave was incorporated around August
2012 and listed at an address owned by Levandowski, according to the filing. In
2013, Google said it learned that Odin Wave had submitted an order for a part
that was similar to one used by Google in its “unique and proprietary laser
Anthony Levandowski, head of Uber’s self-driving program, speaks about their
Anthony Levandowski, head of Uber’s self-driving program, speaks about their
driverless car in San Francisco. Photograph: Eric Risberg/AP
At the time, Levandowski denied having any ownership interest in Odin Wave,
which later merged with a firm called Tyto Lidar. The manager of Tyto, which
was developing LiDAR sensor modules, was “friends with Levandowski and worked
with Levandowski on an early, self-driving vehicle prototype”, the filing said.
Levandowski was involved in the side companies while he was working on Google’s
LiDAR sensor modules, according to the claim. In 2015, Google began to
investigate possibly buying or using Tyto’s products or purchasing the company,
and Levandowski was a part of that process while at Google.
Levandowski visited Tyto’s headquarters as part of the investigation and was
aware of “Google’s confidential opinion of Tyto’s technology and the viability
of Tyto’s business”, according to the claim. Levandowski did not disclose his
“relationship with Tyto and its employees”, which, according to the claim
In May 2016, Tyto merged with Otto, shortly before Uber bought Otto.
The filing released on Monday was authored by Google’s attorneys in October
2016, outlining the case against Levandowski. The document, however, has only
come to light now because Uber filed it as evidence to support its push to have
the case resolved in private arbitration, as opposed to a public trial. The
document is an earlier arbitration demand from Google against Levandowski.
In what appears to be a redaction error by Uber’s attorneys, the documents
revealed that Otto co-founder Lior Ron was also targeted in the earlier
arbitration demand from Google. Uber has previously kept his name secret and
appeared to redact it throughout the filing except on one page.
The lawsuit and theft claims are one of many scandals plaguing Uber. Its CEO,
Travis Kalanick, has faced widespread criticisms for a company culture that
enables sexual harassment and discrimination, and the co-founder was also
The company has also faced numerous high-profile departures and backlash for a
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
