  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Google Pixel XL review: very good phablet but with price tag to match
Supersized smartphone doesn’t really bring anything new to the table, but it
ticks most boxes, with great screen, camera and latest Android 7.1 Nougat
[ ] Google’s first phablet the Pixel XL, is a cracking smartphone that is just
short of excellent. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
Google Pixel XL review: very good phablet but with price tag to match
Supersized smartphone doesn’t really bring anything new to the table, but it
ticks most boxes, with great screen, camera and latest Android 7.1 Nougat
Thursday 27 October 2016 07.00 BST Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
The 5.5in Google Pixel XL is the company’s first own-brand phablet, the bigger
brother of the 5in Pixel. It’s Google inside and out, but is it better than
The 5in Pixel is a good smartphone, but it’s not the most inspired design. The
5.5in Pixel XL is essentially the Pixel put in the photocopier and magnified.
The Pixel XL is wedge-shaped; thicker at the top, thinner on the bottom.
It’s no thicker, though: the wedge-shaped phablet is 7.3mm at the bottom and
8.6mm thick at the top. It weighs another 25g at 168g and it is 6.2mm wider and
10.9mm taller. Compared to the competition, the Pixel XL is about in the
middle. The Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge is 7.7mm thick and weighs 157g, while
Apple’s iPhone 7 Plus is 7.3mm thick and weighs 188g.
But the biggest difference for all these 5.5in phablets is the width. The Pixel
XL is 75.7mm wide, which is a little narrower than the 77.9mm iPhone 7 Plus but
much wider than the 72.6mm S7 Edge. Width is the biggest determinator of how
easy a phablet will be to use with one hand without special adaptations for
one-handed use. Where the iPhone 7 Plus is too wide, the Pixel XL is right on
Its flat edges and relatively small bezels either side of the 5.5in screen make
it manageable with a not abnormal handspan of 23cm. But I suggest if you’re
interested in buying one, visit a store to see if it’s comfortable to hold for.
The Pixel XL is well built, has a good balance in the hand, but is a bit bland
in terms of design, with the only flourish the glass panel that covers a third
of the back. It makes it a little easier to grip, but splits opinion as to
whether it’s attractive. It grew on me after a week.
The display is very good. A 5.5in quad HD AMOLED with a pixel density of 534
pixels per inch. It’s crisp, colourful and bright – bright enough to see in
direct sunlight, in fact. It’s not quite as vibrant as Samsung’s Galaxy S
displays, however, but it is more punchy than the LCDs on iPhones.
  • Camera: 12.3MP rear camera, 8MP front-facing camera
  • Connectivity: LTE, Wi-Fi, NFC, Bluetooth 4.2, USB-C and GPS
USB-C charging and a new ‘Phone by Google’ stamp on the back. Photograph:
The Pixel XL shares the same processor, RAM and storage as the Pixel, and
performs just as well. It’s snappy, launching apps and switching between them
without delay; capable of handling anything you might throw at it and is one of
The larger screen and increased pixel density do not seem to impact the
performance of the device, or how hot it got under load. It ran cooler than
most other modern high-end smartphones during general use, heating up slightly
only when playing graphically intensive games such as Real Racing 3 and Asphalt
One thing that is different is the Pixel XL’s battery life. Using the Pixel XL
as my primary device, it lasted 26 hours between charges, managing three hours
of app usage and browsing, hundreds of emails and push notifications, a couple
of photos, five hours of music over Bluetooth headphones and quite a lot of Dan
the Man during my one hour and 20-minute train commute to and from work. It
means you’ll get through a day, a night out and the commute to work the next
day, but you’ll have to charge it when you get there.
More conservative use and with the battery saving mode enabled below 20% charge
will probably see most people at make it till they get home on the second day
When it comes to charging the Pixel XL, zero to 100% takes about one hour 45
minutes. A half charge takes about 30 minutes, which makes it one of the faster
Launcher shortcuts are one of a collection of new Android 7.1 Nougat features.
The Pixel Xl runs the latest version of Android 7.1 Nougat, just like its
smaller sibling. A rundown of the new features introduced with Android 7.0
Google also added a few new things within 7.1 Nougat, including launcher
shortcuts, a new-look launcher, Google Assistant and a built-in night mode. For
more on those features please see the Pixel review.
The Pixel XL’s larger screen, however, makes some features more useful. The
ability to have two apps side-by-side on one screen, called multi-window, is
one such example. For apps that support it, holding the overview button places
one app above the other, or side-by-side in landscape orientation, with a
slider in the middle to change the split. It’s particularly useful if you’re
having a conversation over text and need to look at a map or similar, and is
much more useable on the larger 5.5in screen than the 5in Pixel.
On the whole it is the most polished and together Android experience currently
available and will benefit from prompt software updates direct from Google that
are not blocked or delayed by network providers for at least two years. Some
other Android devices from the likes of Samsung and LG will receive relatively
prompt security updates, but Android version updates take months to a year from
The fingerprint scanner on the back lines up perfectly with the index finger
when holding the phone in one hand. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
The fingerprint scanner on the back of the Pixel XL is the same as the Pixel:
fast, accurate and can now be used to bring down the notification shade with a
swipe on the pad – something other manufacturers including Huawei have been
The Pixel Imprint scanner is arguably the best in the business, but if you use
your phone on a desk, you can’t activate it without picking it up, or falling
The Google Camera app has just enough tools to be useful, but not too many to
overwhelm users. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
On paper, the Pixel XL’s camera, like the Pixel, isn’t that much to write home
about. It’s a 12.3-megapixel camera with a f/2.0 lens without optical image
stabilisation. The iPhone 7’s camera has 12-megapixel camera and an f/1.8 lens,
while Samsung’s Galaxy S7 Edge has a 12-megapixel camera with an f/1.7 lens.
The lower the f-number the faster the lens and, in theory, the more light it
But the Pixel has a software advantage, producing some of the best, most
detailed and colourful photos available. Google’s HDR+ feature is particularly
good, producing some of the best high dynamic range photos I’ve seen and
without the image blur that can creep in with other systems.
It’s low-light performance is also excellent, while the Google Camera app does
a great job of balancing features with simplicity at a touch of button. It
The 8-megapixel selfie camera is also very good, producing images with good
depth and colour, and a good balance of soft focus and detail.
The headphone socket soldiers on. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
  • Audio quality through the headphones socket was good but not exceptional
  • The Bluetooth broadcast strength to a set of headphones was stronger and
    less susceptible to interference than most other smartphones I have tested
  • It only has one down-firing speaker on the bottom, which is easily blocked
    by hands when gaming, although slightly less so than the 5in Pixel simply
  • A notification LED is available, but not enabled by default
  • Gif search is built into Google’s Keyboard for apps that support it such as
  • Google Photos on the Pixel comes with free, unlimited full resolution photo
    and video backup, not just up to 16MP and 1080p video
The wedge shape means there’s no ugly camera lump on the back. Photograph:
The Pixel XL costs £719 with 32GB of storage or £819 with 128GB of storage in
black or silver. It is also available in blue in the US.
For comparison, Apple’s iPhone 7 Plus costs £719 with 32GB of storage,
Samsung’s Galaxy S7 Edge costs around £570, the Huawei P9 Plus costs £500 and
The Google Pixel XL is a very good phone. It’s camera is great, it’s snappy,
has the latest version of Android and will get updates first, it’s powerful and
lasts over a day between charges. Despite its size it’s also relatively easy to
The problem is it isn’t exceptional, it isn’t waterproof and it is expensive.
It commands top dollar, but unlike competitors such as Samsung’s Galaxy S7 Edge
does not provide much in the way of hardware innovation.
If I had to pick between the Pixel and Pixel XL, I think the XL is a better
phone all round. You won’t be disappointed if you buy a Pixel XL, but there are
equally good if not better smartphones available for considerably less than
    Pros: Android 7.1 Nougat, rapid updates, great camera, great screen, more
    than a day’s battery life, Google Assistant, great fingerprint scanner
    Cons: not waterproof, no expandable memory, no front-facing speakers, no
    wireless charging, expensive, not as easy to handle as some rivals
Google’s first own-brand phablet. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
  • OnePlus 3 review: flagship phone at mid-range price
  • Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge review: this is the smartphone to beat
  • Huawei P9 Plus review: high-class phablet held back by sub-par software
  • Google Nexus 6P review: the best phablet available in 2015
  • iPhone 7 Plus review: 2014 called – it wants its phablet back
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
