  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
iPhone 7 review roundup: how big a problem is the absent headphone jack?
Barely anyone had anything good to say about the headphone jack, but how
irritating it is depends on whether you listen to music on anything else
[ ] The first iPhone 7 and 7 Plus reviews have arrived and no one really has a
good thing to say about the loss of the humble headphone socket. Photograph:
iPhone 7 review roundup: how big a problem is the absent headphone jack?
Barely anyone had anything good to say about the headphone jack, but how
irritating it is depends on whether you listen to music on anything else
Tuesday 13 September 2016 16.21 BST Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
The first reviews of the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus are out from publications given
early access to Apple’s new smartphones and wireless headphones. The first
question on everyone’s lips is: what is it like not having a headphones socket?
In all the in-depth reviews, barely anyone has found anything positive to say
about the lack of the jack, aside from Apple’s company line that removing the
headphone socket provided more space forother things. There have been quite a
While it wasn’t enough to put everyone off the phones, all reviewers found at
least some irritation with juggling headphones, remembering not to lose a
dongle, and not being able to charge the battery while listening to music.
The irritation associated with not having a headphone jack depends on how much
you use Apple’s included EarPods, Bluetooth headphones or whether you try to
The one socket to rule them all. Photograph: Monica Davey/EPA
Andrew Cunningham, writing for Ars Technica, cuts right to the heart of the
    Most people will feel the absent headphone jack the most in two situations.
    First, if you’re listening to music on your iPhone and you’d like to plug
    into some non-iDevice with a 3.5mm jack but no Lightning port, including to
    but not limited to your Mac, you’re out of luck. To solve this problem,
    I’ve found myself using my standard 3.5mm earbuds plugged into the dongle
    to listen to music and podcasts on the iPhone 7 just to make it easier to
    switch to my MacBook Air or 3DS when I want to.
    The latter problem is more complicated: if you need to charge the phone and
    listen to audio at the same time. This runs up against the
    less-talked-about effect of the disappearing headphone jack, which is that
    the iPhone 7 only has one port where all previous models had two.
    I can totally accept the premise that the future is wireless, but the
    present is still mostly wired. If you buy an iPhone 7 on launch day, you’ll
    be wading into the most painful part of the transition. Make sure you go in
For Business Insider’s Steve Kovach, not having a headphone jack on the iPhone
7 isn’t an issue, but everything else not having a Lightning socket or
    When I was flying back to New York last week, I wanted to watch a movie on
    Delta’s in-flight entertainment system. But I had shiny new pair of the
    Lightning EarPods, and Delta’s system requires the standard jack. That
    means I had to pull out a second pair of regular EarPods that I had with me
    from my iPhone 6. Bluetooth was out of the question.
    I think that’s going to be the biggest problem as people adjust to the
    death of the headphone jack. Listening to music through Lightning or
    Bluetooth headphones is a breeze on the iPhone 7, but Apple has ignored the
    fact that the rest of the world is using the original standard.
There are a few third-party options for Lightning headphones, but they still
can’t be connected to anything else. Photograph: Marcio Jose Sanchez/AP
The adapter in the box makes the loss of the jack ok for David Phelan, but
    If you have favourite headphones with a conventional 3.5mm tip, you can
    still use them as Apple has bundled a 3.5mm to Lightning adaptor in the
    box. This can stay connected to your headphones so you don’t lose it. If
    you need more, they’re available to buy for £9 – about the cheapest product
    Of course, it’s not so easy to charge your phone while listening to music
    any more as it’s all the same socket. You’ll need a different adaptor or
    dock with multiple connections to make this work.
iPhone 7 will need multiple adapters to listen to music and charge at your desk
using tradition cabled headphones. Composite: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
    So let’s talk about the other reason you might actually consider skipping
    the iPhone 7—the death of the headphone jack. Apple really blew it when it
    explained this. The iPhone 7 still comes with corded earbuds, but they plug
    into the Lightning port now instead of the old round plug, and the box
    comes with an adapter so you can use your old headphones. There’s one big
    downside: You can’t plug in headphones and the charger at the same time
    unless you buy another strange adapter—for $40!
If you only listen to music out and about, who needs a headphone jack?
Photograph: Cultura RM Exclusive/Chad Springer/Getty Images/Cultura Exclusive
Lisa Eadicicco writing for Time says that if you only listen to music on your
    How big of a deal is headphone jack’s disappearance? Music fans who’ve
    splurged on high-end headphones may be peeved about keeping track of an
    additional adapter that might be easily lost; replacements will cost $9.99.
    And iPhone 7 users won’t be able to listen to songs through wired
    headphones and charge their phone at the same time without an optional
    dock. But for people who just want to listen to music on their morning
    commute or during a jog, Apple’s included earbuds will do just fine.
At least there’s an adapter in the box. Photograph: Marcio Jose Sanchez/AP
    To hear Apple tell the tale, getting rid of that decades-old standard
    wasn’t just a practical move to make waterproofing and increased battery
    life possible – it was also an act of “courage.” Here’s a bit of
    unsolicited advice for Apple: I get that changing the world is sort of your
    thing, but maybe go easy on the hubris next time.
    The toughest part of not having a headphone jack is trying to break all my
    old listening habits. I can’t tell you the number of times I tried to plug
    a regular pair of earbuds into these phones before -- d’oh! -- remembering
    that doesn’t work and then having to root around for the included
Just use these and it’ll all be fine. Photograph: Stephen Lam/Getty Images
Brian Chen told New York Times readers that, while the lack of a headphone jack
is irritating, the included Lightning earbuds help.
    For consumers hoarding lots of wired audio gear, the converter solution is
    less convenient since the adapter is tiny and easy to lose. If you have a
    pair of great wired headphones, your best bet is to leave the converter
    connected to the headphones so you don’t forget it.
Apple has history when it comes to just shipping products with only one port,
just look at the MacBook and its single USB-C port. Photograph: Apple
For Cnet’s Scott Stein, the removal of the headphone socket is a pain, a
    True, the iPhone 7 gives you a number of options: Get a pair of Bluetooth
    headphones. You could use the included wired Apple EarPods, which now have
    a strange Lightning plug instead of a 3.5mm one. Or the
    Lightning-to-regular-headphone adapter dongle, which Apple’s thoughtfully
    included in the box. But you have to remember to take it everywhere with
    you, and who wants to remember to carry a dongle? (If you leave it attached
    to your headphones, you better not bring another pair of headphones.)
    That little headphone jack is the one thing that I could see bothering
    people about this phone. Like the single USB-C port on Apple’s newest
    If you’re already a wireless headphone power user, you won’t miss a thing.
    But someday – who knows when? – you’ll find yourself somewhere wanting to
    use a pair of wired headphones. And you’ll find that you can’t plug them in
    because you left your dongle behind. Don’t cry to me when that happens.
For Nilay Patel, writing for the Verge, the included headphones are poor and
Apple’s closed ecosystem on a better Bluetooth set up is a hold up to pushing
    The Lightning EarPods are exactly like Apple’s regular EarPods, which is to
    say that they sound average-to-bad and fit either fine or not-great
    depending on your ears. Competitors like LG and HTC ship much higher
    quality headphones with their flagship phones, and Apple owns Beats, so
    it’s just really hard to understand why it’s still shipping such decidedly
    mediocre headphones with the iPhone. Especially when the company is trying
    to get everyone to be enthusiastic about the move away from 3.5mm. But here
The Guardian has not been provided with a review handset by Apple and will be
reviewing the device after purchasing it when it goes on sale on Friday 16
  • Want to listen to an iPhone 7 and charge it simultaneously? That’ll be £35
  • How waterproof are the iPhone 7, Samsung Galaxy S7 and smartwatches?
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
