  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Light at the end of the tunnel: sun shines for Brunel's birthday
Rail staff confirm legend that rising sun shines through Box tunnel in Bath on
The morning sun shines through Brunel’s Box tunnel near Bath on the engineer’s
[ ] The morning sun shines through Brunel’s Box tunnel near Bath on the
Light at the end of the tunnel: sun shines for Brunel's birthday
Rail staff confirm legend that rising sun shines through Box tunnel in Bath on
Monday 10 April 2017 18.21 BST Last modified on Monday 10 April 2017 22.00 BST
Engineers have tested one of the UK’s most intriguing railway legends: that the
rising sun shines through the Box tunnel near Bath on the birthday of the
For many years, railway enthusiasts and mathematicians have argued over whether
Isambard Kingdom Brunel, the creator of the Great Western mainline, did design
the two-mile tunnel with his own birthday in mind.
On Sunday – 211 years after Brunel’s birth – the line was shut because of
upgrade work, providing Great Western Railway and Network Rail with a rare
chance to observe whether the sun really does shine through the length of the
Teams positioned themselves at the eastern and western ends of the tunnel and
waited for the sun to rise on one of the brightest days of the year.
Communications manager Paul Gentleman, who was at the eastern end, said he was
treated to a spectacular sight. “When you look from the east portal, the
cutting provides a lovely V-shape,” he said. “The sun rose from the left and
was shining directly down the tunnel. We couldn’t see how far.
Brunel's Thames tunnel (and accidental brothel) becomes new arts space
“It was fascinating to watch the sun as it nestled in the centre of that V as
it rose – quite an astounding sight. When you look at it from that east portal
you got the feeling that effect was definitely part of the design.”
At the western end, it was not quite as striking. Matthew Golton, commercial
development director at GWR, said: “We could see the sun had risen but we
weren’t getting full-on sunshine through the tunnel.”
Great Western Railway captures light beaming through Brunel’s Box Tunnel near
Light beaming through Brunel’s Box Tunnel. Photograph: Adam Scott/GWR
Golton said the tunnel had changed since it was completed in 1841. “Back then,
it had 30m new bricks in the lining,” he said. ”It hadn’t had 130 years of
It is possible that the sun used to glint off water in the tunnel – Network
Rail continues to work hard to keep the tunnel dry. “Perhaps when it was first
opened there was more water inside that the light could have been reflected
The supposed link with Brunel’s birthday was first reported by the Devizes
Gazette in 1842. The Daily Telegraph followed the story up some time later but,
until now, as far as GWR knows, there have been no photographs of the supposed
Golton said the idea of building such a long tunnel between Bath and Chippenham
was hugely controversial and was described during a debate in parliament as
“dangerous, extraordinary, monstrous and impractical”. Railway pioneer George
The project was over budget and behind time. At the height of construction,
4,000 people were working on the tunnel and the engineers were getting through
a tonne of candle wax and a tonne of explosives every week. One hundred people
It is not a surprise to Golton that Brunel might have added a mischievous
detail to his astounding design. “There are lots of good reasons why Brunel
might have wanted to provide a riposte to his critics by not only completing
the structure but putting a special architectural signature into the job,” he
There will be no more practical chances to test the theory for the foreseeable
future. The line is now open again and, from the autumn, new Intercity Express
    Man of Iron: Thomas Telford and the Building of Britain by Julian Glover
    This is an evocative biography of Britain’s greatest civil engineer, who
    can take the credit for much of the industrial revolution’s architecture
    Man of Iron: Thomas Telford and the Building of Britain by Julian Glover
    European leaders open world's longest rail tunnel in Switzerland
    Swiss president says he hopes Gotthard base tunnel below Alps will help
    European leaders open world's longest rail tunnel in Switzerland
    Uncovering the lives of women in science and technology: the case of Sarah
    Rebekah Higgitt: We love to hear about talented women rescued from
    historical obscurity, but tend to be selective when it comes to which
    Uncovering the lives of women in science and technology: the case of Sarah
    Tunnel visions: arts and tourism transform underground spaces
    From music and dance to herb farms, Britain’s subterranean spaces are being
    Tunnel visions: arts and tourism transform underground spaces
      □ Walking the Chains review – view from Brunel’s bridge celebrates a
        Walking the Chains review – view from Brunel’s bridge celebrates a
      □ Bridge: The architecture of the river Thames – in pictures
        Bridge: The architecture of the river Thames – in pictures
      □ Fox Talbot photograph of Brunel's Hungerford bridge to go on display
        Fox Talbot photograph of Brunel's Hungerford bridge to go on display
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
