  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
The Guardian - Back to home browse all sections close
Designs that made the act of listening a personal experience, from early in-ear
prototypes to Bluetooth, wireless and noise-cancelling varieties
Friday 17 March 2017 10.00 GMT Last modified on Friday 17 March 2017 10.31 GMT
    In-ear listening devices, commonly referred to as the earphone or earbud,
    hark back to the late 1800s when Thomas Edison attached stethoscope-like
    listening tubes to a phonograph. The first patent for earbuds dates back to
    1891, when French electrical engineer Ernest Jules Pierre Mercadier
    designed the ‘bi-telephone’ for communications use.Earphone technology
    improved over the next 90 years, with most developments meant for hearing
    aids and other devices. It wasn’t until the 1980s after the release of the
    Walkman that the earbud as we know it today began to evolve.
    Mormon fundamentalist electrical engineer, Nathaniel Baldwin, is widely
    credited as inventing what became modern headphones in 1910 on his kitchen
    table. His headphones were designed for communications use and were snapped
    up by the US Navy to be used by radio operators.
    German audio equipment manufacturer Beyerdynamic, which started out
    creating loudspeakers for cinemas, developed the first pair of dynamic
    headphones the DT48. They used a coil of wire attached to the back of a
    speaker cone through which the current of the audio signal was carried,
    causing it to move in a fixed magnetic field to move the air and create
    sound.Dynamic drivers are still the most popular type used in headphones
    and speakers today, and the DT48 were still in production in one form or
    Milwaukee-based musician John C Koss partnered with engineer Martin Lange
    to develop the first stereo headphones, the Koss SP/3, in 1958. The
    headphones were intended as a way to market a portable phonograph, but
    after exhibiting the design at a hi-fi trade show, Koss went into
    manufacturing the so-called ‘stereophones’, setting the design and
    The original cassette Walkman came equipped with a set of on-ear foam-pad
    headphones, Sony’s MDR-3L2. Due to the Walkman’s popularity, the bundling
    of the new lightweight headphones propelled them into the mainstream along
    with the relatively new 3.5mm headphones socket, both of which became
    Bose released the Quiet Comfort headphones in 2000, but the idea gestated
    decades earlier. Having been plagued by the engine roar of a transatlantic
    flight in 1978, company founder Dr. Amar Bose started its research into
    noise-cancellation technology, which uses microphones outside the
    headphones to detect ambient noise and cancel it before it hits the eardrum
    by playing the inverse of the ambient sound through the speakers. Bose
    first used this technology in 1986 in a headset designed to protect the
    The original Apple basic earbuds had no controls, no microphone and were
    nothing more than white versions of similar earphones sold by competitors
    at the time, but they shipped with the iPod in 2001 and quickly became a
    status symbol – a streak of white cable that signified the wearer as an
    iPod owner.They managed to successfully make the earbud the go-to portable
    audio earphone of choice, and bred a healthy industry in third-party
    premium earphones targeted at iPod owners who wanted better sound.
    Music producer Jimmy Lovine and rapper Dr Dre started a headphones company
    in 2006 because Apple’s Earbuds ‘destroyed the feeling of what [Dr Dre]
    worked on’ – his music. Beats by Dr Dre were released in 2008, and while
    acoustically they nothing special, they convinced buyers that big
    headphones could be fashionable. Through celeb endorsement and product
    placement, Beats reinvigorated the headphone market, showing that not only
    audiophiles were willing to spend £100s on headphones. Completing the
    Bluetooth, the wireless connection standard named after the 10th century
    Danish King, Harald Bluetooth (pictured), and first released in 1999, is
    the reason mainstream headphones are now going wireless. The first stereo
    wireless Bluetooth headphones hit the market in 2004, but it wasn’t until
    the early 2010s that they started to become viable alternatives for
    Photograph: BirgerNiss/Getty Images/iStockphoto
    While Bluetooth headphones are now commonplace, truly wireless earbuds –
    those without any wires connecting them – are still a new and unproven
    technology.Bragi’s Dash were some of the first, but struggled to maintain a
    constant connection between each earbud. It wasn’t until 2016 that Bragi’s
    the Headphone, Jabra’s Elite Sport (pictured) and Apple’s AirPods came
    along that the technology actually worked. While they’re still an expensive
    early adopter device, wireless earbuds are the future of earphones.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
