  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Can any good come from engaging with internet trolls?
Online abuse has been around for years, but the idiom of the troll has changed
A troll is someone whose gratification is vested in an intent to cause harm.
[ ] A troll is someone whose gratification is vested in an intent to cause
harm. Why would you engage with that? Illustration: Ben Wiseman
Can any good come from engaging with internet trolls?
Online abuse has been around for years, but the idiom of the troll has changed
Wednesday 5 April 2017 18.28 BST Last modified on Wednesday 5 April 2017 
A: Firstly, let’s settle on a definition of “troll”. A troll is not someone who
makes you feel bad. It’s not someone whose opinion you find offensive, or a
“devil’s advocate” who assumes a position contrary to your own with the
intention of stirring up trouble. That person, while annoying, is called an
opinion writer and can still be usefully engaged with. A troll, on the other
hand, is someone whose gratification is vested in an intent to cause harm. Why
Is it wrong to unfriend or unfollow people I disagree with?
Well, a few reasons. Several months ago, someone calling himself Asswipe posted
a comment to my website. The message, which was filtered and referred to a TV
review I’d written, was forwarded to me by my hosting service and read:
“Perhaps you need to learn the difference between a TV series and REALITY, you
DUMB FUCKING KNUCKLE-DRAGGING NAZI WITCH.” I read this several times. I was
taken aback; the violence of the message felt like a physical push. I then
felt, in quick succession, panicky, alarmed and vaguely threatened, followed by
an overwhelming urge to reply. I really, really wanted to email him back (I’m
assuming it was a him, although when trolls are unmasked they do occasionally
turn out to be women) and, in the voice of a 1970s therapist, ask: “Why did you
feel the need to do that?” I didn’t want to score points, or defend my
position, or convert him to my way of thinking. I wanted to know what the brain
movement is of someone who reads a TV review he doesn’t like and promptly goes
I also wanted to prove to myself that the world is fundamentally unchanged. A
million years ago, when written communication between people was limited to
emails, I had a policy of always engaging. It took effort to compose an email,
and I found even the tetchy ones gratifying. As long as the sender wasn’t too
obviously insane, I would reply – and the snippier the email, the jollier my
tone, until I reached a kind of ringing, Julie Andrews high cheer. “Thank you
so much for taking the time to write, I quite see what you mean, and my opinion
may in fact be totally wrong!” Every single time, the person would write back
and, if they’d been rude, rather shamefacedly apologize. A discussion would
ensue, and even if we didn’t meet each other halfway, everyone came out of it
feeling good. I felt good about not hating the sender. The sender felt good
about having his opinion acknowledged. A gap, however trivial, had been
There is no winning like this on today’s internet. We know this. The psychology
of engagement changed when messages became public and intemperance was rewarded
with eyeballs. To send someone an unhinged email only they will see is a
private act of lunacy. To craft one for the public eye is something else
entirely, and even when these messages are filtered, enough aren’t – on social
media and in chatrooms – to ensure the entire window of discourse has shifted.
It is much harder to have a genuine exchange when both parties have an eye on
their audience, and while there has always been savage debate and arguing in
bad faith, the idiom of the troll – displeasure phrased as death threat,
elaborate rape fantasy, or mad sweary insult – has changed the whole landscape.
We are, these days, simply less inclined to conciliate.
And yet, I still have it: the impulse to say but wait, surely behind your egg
avatar you are a person with arms and legs and a head and feelings.
Mary Beard reveals she befriended Twitter trolls following online abuse
The model here is obviously Mary Beard, the historian who not only engaged with
her troll but took him out to lunch and tried to find him a job. This may, as
Beard said at the time, have been an entirely altruistic gesture; the
20-year-old in question turned out to be predictably pathetic and abject with
apology. But of course, as Beard must also have known, her exercise in
forgiveness was highly exposing: the pitiful troll, ripped from his shell,
versus the noblesse oblige of the Cambridge academic. She won, in other words.
For the onlooker this was a gratifying spectacle, but in one’s own life it can
be hard to summon the will. Life is short. Unwarranted aggression shouldn’t be
dignified. I didn’t reply to my troll in the end because I was afraid, not just
of the possibility that this guy, contrary to 99% of what we know about trolls,
wasn’t an unhappy 20-year-old but Michael Myers from Halloween. I was also
afraid of courting disappointment: what if he replied, succeeded in annoying me
rather than merely alarming me, and at the end of a day-long discussion still
So no. I don’t think we should engage with trolls. But I think we should
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
