  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Tilted device could pinpoint pin number for hackers, study claims
Researchers were able to guess four-digit code with 70% accuracy at first
[ ] Websites need to permission to access sensitive information such as
location data but the orientation of a device is not considered sensitive.
Tilted device could pinpoint pin number for hackers, study claims
Researchers were able to guess four-digit code with 70% accuracy at first
Tuesday 11 April 2017 06.01 BST Last modified on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
Hackers could steal mobile phone users’ pin numbers from the way their devices
tilt as they type on them, researchers have claimed.
Computer scientists at Newcastle University managed to guess a four-digit pin
with 70% accuracy at the first attempt by using the gyroscopes built into all
modern smartphones. With five attempts, the team was able to correctly guess
The theoretical hack takes advantage of a loophole in how web browsers share
data from a smartphone with websites that ask for it. While sensitive
information such as location requires user permission, a malicious website can
ask for, and be given, seemingly benign data such as device orientation without
But users need not be too concerned about hackers breaking into their devices.
The method behind the attack has significant hindrances that would prevent it
Dr Maryam Mehrnezhad, a research fellow in the School of Computing Science,
said: “Most smartphones, tablets, and other wearables are now equipped with a
multitude of sensors, from the well-known GPS, camera and microphone to
instruments such as the gyroscope, rotation sensors and accelerometer.
The most common pin numbers: is your bank account vulnerable?
“But because mobile apps and websites don’t need to ask permission to access
most of them, malicious programs can covertly ‘listen in’ on your sensor data
and use it to discover a wide range of sensitive information about you, such as
phone call timing, physical activities and even your touch actions, pins and
Websites need to ask permission from users to access sensitive information,
such as location data, or to access sensors such as the cameras or microphones
on a device. But some information, such as the orientation of the device or the
size of its screen, is considered non-sensitive and generally shared with any
site that asks for it to enable interactivity and responsive webpages.
Thankfully, to train the system to enough precision to be able to guess even a
simple four-digit pin (and most smartphones require a six-digit, or longer,
password), the researchers required a lot of data from users: each had to type
50 known pin numbers in, five times over, before it learned enough about how
they hold their phones to guess a hidden pin with 70% accuracy.
But with no uniform way of managing sensors across the industry, when research
such as Mehrnezhad’s shows flaws, it can be difficult for manufacturers to give
“Despite the very real risks, when we asked people which sensors they were most
concerned about we found a direct correlation between perceived risk and
understanding,” she said. “So people were far more concerned about the camera
The team was able to identify 25 different sensors that came as standard on
most smart devices and were used to give different information about the device
The researchers found that each user touch action – clicking, scrolling,
holding and tapping – induced a unique orientation and motion trace and so on a
known webpage, the team was able to determine what part of the page the user
They said they had alerted leading browser providers such as Google and Apple
of the risks, but so far no one had been able to come up with an answer.
The research is similar to a finding in 2015 that a then-new tool for reporting
battery status to websites, intended to allow webmasters to offer a low-power
version of their site for users with little power left, was capable of being
abused to track a user across apps, sites and private browsing modes. Although
only theoretically possible when first reported in 2015, by 2016 user tracking
firms were using it in the real world, which prompted Firefox to disable the
In 2014, hackers at the Chaos Communications Congress in Hamburg demonstrated
the “corneal keylogger”, a system allowing them to extract information such as
pin codes from only a video of the victim’s eye as they enter the data.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
