  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Uber diversity report paints overwhelmingly white, male picture
Company pledged to measure diversity after a wave of scrutiny, but numbers
reveal its tech leadership team is entirely white and Asian, and 88.7% men
An Uber representative helps travelers find rides with Uber at LaGuardia
airport in New York. Uber’s first report on employee diversity shows low
numbers for women, especially in technology positions.
[ ] An Uber representative helps travelers find rides with Uber at LaGuardia
airport in New York. Uber’s first report on employee diversity shows low
numbers for women, especially in technology positions. Photograph: Seth Wenig/
Uber diversity report paints overwhelmingly white, male picture
Company pledged to measure diversity after a wave of scrutiny, but numbers
reveal its tech leadership team is entirely white and Asian, and 88.7% men
Tuesday 28 March 2017 20.01 BST Last modified on Tuesday 28 March 2017 
Uber released its first diversity report on Tuesday, fulfilling a pledge made
last month amid a storm of allegations about workplace sexual harassment and
The numbers reveal a workforce that is overwhelmingly made up of white or Asian
men. Just 15.4% of the tech staff are women, while blacks and Latinos account
The company’s technical leadership is entirely white and Asian, and 88.7% male.
Uber launches 'urgent investigation' into sexual harassment claims
Non-technical workers – including customer support staff, who are 33.5% black –
show more representation of women and minorities. Overall, 36.1% of workers are
“In addition to moving the ball forward on all the data above, we recognize the
relative lack of diversity across all forms of leadership, including on our
board of directors, and will be thoughtful about diversity as the company
The report does not include Uber drivers, who are classified as independent
“We applaud Uber for finally releasing the diversity data it’s held on to for
so long, but the company still clearly has a long way to go, given its
extremely segregated tech workforce,” said Orson Aguilar, the president of the
Greenlining Institute, an organization that promotes economic opportunity for
people of color. “Uber should strive to have its workforce meet the diversity
Uber also announced that it would donate $3m over the next three years to
organizations that promote women and underrepresented minorities in tech.
Uber had long resisted releasing demographic data about its workforce, even as
other major tech companies began publishing annual reports under pressure from
But a viral blogpost by a former employee alleging sexual harassment, gender
discrimination, and inadequate responses from management prompted the company
to change its tune. Uber hired former US attorney Eric Holder to investigate
the workplace, and enlisted board member Arianna Huffington to promise
fundamental change in the corporate culture. The company also promised to
Uber’s first diversity report doesn’t count drivers as employees.
Uber’s first diversity report doesn’t count drivers as employees. Photograph:
“I know that we have been too slow in publishing our numbers – and that the
best way to demonstrate our commitment to change is through transparency. And
to make progress, it’s important we measure what matters,” CEO Travis Kalanick
Uber’s damage control efforts have not halted a string of negative headlines
that have included the sexual harassment allegations, a viral #DeleteUber
campaign, a video of Kalanick berating an Uber driver, the exposure of a
program to systematically evade law enforcement, a damaging lawsuit that could
threaten the company’s self-driving car program, and a string of executive
Greyball: how Uber used secret software to dodge the law
In the past week, Uber lost another top executive, president Jeff Jones, who
said the company’s “beliefs and approach to leadership” were “inconsistent”
with his own. Also, one of the company’s self-driving cars was involved in a
collision in Arizona, prompting Uber to temporarily suspend the program.
In addition, a report emerged that Kalanick and other senior employees visited
an escort/karaoke bar in Seoul in 2014, an activity that made a female
marketing manager uncomfortable. Gabi Holzwarth, an ex-partner of Kalanick,
related the incident to the Information after, she said, Uber senior
vice-president Emil Michael pressured her not to tell the press about it.
Uber’s diversity statistics are generally in line with other major tech
employers, which have overwhelmingly failed to hire female, Latino, or black
workers, especially in highly paid technical roles.
Google’s tech workforce is 19% female, 1% black, and 3% Latino. Facebook’s tech
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
