  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Uber's head of communications quits scandal-hit cab app
Rachel Whetstone, once adviser to former Tory leader Michael Howard and friend
of David Cameron, moved from Google less than two years ago
Rachel Whetstone, when she was senior vice-president at Google.
[ ] Rachel Whetstone, when she was senior vice-president at Google. Photograph:
Uber's head of communications quits scandal-hit cab app
Rachel Whetstone, once adviser to former Tory leader Michael Howard and friend
of David Cameron, moved from Google less than two years ago
Wednesday 12 April 2017 09.49 BST Last modified on Wednesday 12 April 2017 
Uber’s head of public policy and communications, Rachel Whetstone, has quit the
troubled cab-hire app less that two years after it poached her from Google.
Her departure comes after a string of scandals for Uber, ignited by a tell-all
blogpost from a former employee alleging numerous sexual harassment incidents.
The company responded by setting up an “urgent investigation” into the claims,
but could not stop the tide of bad press: a few weeks later, chief executive,
Travis Kalanick, was caught on video in a fiery argument with one of his own
drivers over exploitation; one of his former partners told of a trip with
senior employees to a Korean “escort/karaoke bar”; and other employees revealed
how the company’s “hustle-oriented” culture became a black mark when they
In the midst of the crisis, Uber’s president Jeff Jones also quit, explicitly
blaming the company’s corporate culture. “The beliefs and approach to
leadership that have guided my career are inconsistent with what I saw and
experienced at Uber,” he said at the time, “and I can no longer continue as
British Whetstone, who in 2003 was appointed Michael Howard’s chief of staff
when he became Conservative leader , and is a friend of both David Cameron and
George Osborne, also found herself at the centre of a more localised storm
following allegations that she used her contacts to secure an advantageous deal
for Uber in London. In March, the Daily Mail claimed that Cameron had
personally intervened on Uber’s behalf, successfully lobbying then-London mayor
She will be succeeded by Jill Hazelbaker, who worked for her at both Uber and
Google. In a statement Whetstone said: “I am incredibly proud of the team that
we’ve built – and that just as when I left Google, a strong and brilliant woman
will be taking my place. I joined Uber because I love the product – and that
love is as strong today as it was when I booked my very first ride six years
In an email to staff, the BBC reported Kalanick wrote: “I am looking forward to
having her as an advisor for years to come … with many more long hikes along
the Skyline Trail,” attaching a picture of himself and Whetstone on a recent
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
