  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Google lawsuit could be a fatal setback for Uber's self-driving dreams
Accusations that an ex-Google engineer stole trade secrets and took them to
Uber may pose an existential threat in the race to get self-driving cars on the
Uber has racked up victories against regulators, but now it’s going up against
[ ] Uber has racked up victories against regulators, but now it’s going up
against tech’s undisputed heavyweight champion: Google. Photograph: Bloomberg/
Google lawsuit could be a fatal setback for Uber's self-driving dreams
Accusations that an ex-Google engineer stole trade secrets and took them to
Uber may pose an existential threat in the race to get self-driving cars on the
Julia Carrie Wong and Olivia Solon in San Francisco
Saturday 25 February 2017 17.15 GMT Last modified on Sunday 26 February 2017 
When Anthony Levandowski loped on to the stage to accept the Hot New Startup
award at an industry awards show this month, the trucker hat perched on his
head served as a cringeworthy nod to the millions of drivers his self-driving
Three weeks later, it is the pioneering engineer of self-driving car technology
whose job could be in jeopardy, and the lawsuit he is named in could pose an
existential threat to an increasingly vulnerable Uber.
With deep pockets and a $70bn valuation, Uber has racked up a series of
victories against regulators, taxi companies, and upstart competitors. But Uber
will now go up against tech’s undisputed heavyweight champion – Google – while
it is still on the ropes after a consumer boycott campaign and allegations of a
Uber accused of 'calculated theft' of Google's self-driving car technology
A report by the New York Times that Uber misled the public by blaming a human
driver for running a red light during the company’s short-lived self-driving
trial in San Francisco further damaged both Uber’s and Levandowski’s
credibility. The car was in fact driving itself when it ran the red light,
according to two sources and internal documents obtained by the Times.
Levandowski, who runs Uber’s self-driving car program, is at the center of a
blistering lawsuit against Uber that was filed Thursday by his former employer,
Google’s self-driving car project, Waymo. He is accused of brazenly stealing
critical intellectual property and trade secrets and using them to start his
own company, Otto. Uber’s $680m acquisition of Otto in August 2016 gave it
access to Waymo’s secrets, the suit claims, which the ride sharing company is
now using to bypass Google’s seven years and many millions of dollars worth of
Anthony Levandowski discusses Uber’s self-driving cars in San Francisco. An
Anthony Levandowski discusses Uber’s self-driving cars in San Francisco. An
Otto truck can be seen in the background. Photograph: Eric Risberg/AP
Waymo claims to have significant evidence of the theft, including logs of
downloads by Levandowski and other Otto recruits, an errant email from a vendor
showing that Otto’s LiDAR system – the system that allows an autonomous vehicle
to navigate – bears a “striking resemblance” to Waymo’s own design, and
documents Otto filed with the Nevada state government. The suit also alleges
that Levandowski met with “high-level executives” at Uber’s San Francisco
headquarters while he still worked at Google – and one day before he formed the
On Friday, Uber issued a blanket denial, saying in a statement: “We have
reviewed Waymo’s claims and determined them to be a baseless attempt to slow
down a competitor and we look forward to vigorously defending against them in
court.” Levandowski did not respond to a request for comment.
But if Google is able to prove its case, the cost to Uber could be significant.
In addition to monetary damages, Waymo is seeking an injunction against Uber to
Google could win a “head-start” injunction against Uber, preventing the company
from working on the disputed LiDAR technology for as long as it took Google to
develop, according to Robert Merges, an intellectual property expert at the
University of California, Berkeley law school. For Uber to “sit on the
sideline” for three to five years while its competitors race to market would be
Indeed, according to Uber’s own CEO, Travis Kalanick, such a delay could be
In August, Kalanick laid out the stakes of his competition with Google to
Bloomberg: “The minute it was clear to us that our friends in Mountain View
were going to be getting in the ride-sharing space, we needed to make sure
there is an alternative [self-driving car], because if there is not, we’re not
Building their own self-driving car “is basically existential for us”, he
Driverless trucks: economic tsunami may swallow one of most common US jobs
At the center of the current dispute is LiDAR, the system of lasers that allow
an autonomous vehicle to build a 3D map of its environment and “see” where it
is going. Waymo claims that its proprietary LiDAR is its secret sauce, but
Merges cautioned that “it might not be as innovative as they make it seem”. If
Waymo’s design is derived from public information, such as scientific papers,
then Otto and Uber could defend the alleged similarities in design.
Still, experts questioned the speed at which Otto claimed to have developed its
own system. “It takes years to break into commercialisation if you start with a
blank sheet of paper,” said Richard Wallace of the Center for Automotive
Research. “Recreating is a lot slower than ‘I already have it.’”
Wallace and others suggested that in the worst-case scenario – an injunction –
Uber could simply purchase LiDAR from another company, but it’s not the kind of
technology that can be simply bought off the shelf.
According to Laszlo Kishonti, the CEO of AImotive, a driverless car company,
the only LiDAR systems available for sale (at about $80,000 a pop) have long
wait lists. Waiting is a risk, Kishonti said, because once a LiDAR-equipped car
is on the road, a company can start building a precise 3D map of a city or
“If someone else gets there first,” Kishonti said, “they can steal whole cities
Waymo has also alleged that the theft went beyond the LiDAR system’s
specifications to include other trade secrets involving the company’s supply
chain and vendors. And despite Levandowski’s claim that the company was started
“traditionally in a house in Palo Alto”, the company’s roots clearly point to
The four co-founders – Levandowski, Lior Ron, Claire Delaunay, and Don Burnette
– all left jobs at Google to start Otto. An additional 28 Otto employees are
Google alumni, according to a review of LinkedIn profiles, and 18 of them left
jobs with Google’s self-driving car unit and joined Otto a month or two later.
Many moved into positions with the same or comparable job titles, including
Sameer Kshirsagar, Google’s former manager for global supply management for
self-driving cars who became Uber and Otto’s director of supply chain in July
In the lawsuit, Waymo alleges that a “supply chain manager” downloaded
“confidential supply chain information and other confidential manufacturing
information” one month before resigning in July 2016 and going to work for
Otto. Kshirsagar did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
A Google self-driving prototype car at the Google campus in Mountain View,
A Google self-driving prototype car at the Google campus in Mountain View,
The suit comes as Uber is being buffeted on multiple fronts. The company has
long appeared to enjoy its battles with state and local regulators and the taxi
industry, but the company is now facing enemies closer to home.
For years, the company dominated the ride-hail market despite widely discussed
concerns about ethics. Customers seemed content to ignore any moral qualms
about Uber’s treatment of its drivers in favor of the service’s convenience.
Uber writes to users abandoning service over sexual harassment claims
But the election of Donald Trump has changed the political climate in the US.
More than 200,000 customers reportedly deleted their accounts in February after
a questionable tweet from Uber during a New York airport taxi strike over the
president’s travel ban and Kalanick’s role on an economic advisory panel for
Trump produced a maelstrom of #DeleteUber outrage.
Sunday’s publication of allegations of a workplace culture rife with sexual
harassment and gender discrimination by a former Uber engineer have intensified
the crisis. While Uber has pledged to investigate and reform, a steady flow of
leaks about company meetings and other airings of dirty laundry suggest that
some employees are feeling significantly less loyal to their employer. The
negative portrayal of Uber’s workplace could hamper its ability to attract and
retain top talent, and the fact that Uber has crafted a special message to
account deleters about the harassment allegations suggests that customers
On Thursday, just hours before the Waymo suit dropped, Uber was also hit with a
public rebuke from two of its earliest investors, Mitch and Freada Kapor. The
pair lambasted “a culture plagued by disrespect, exclusionary cliques, lack of
diversity, and tolerance for bullying and harassment of every form” and pointed
out Uber’s habit of “responding to public exposure of bad behavior by holding
an all-hands meeting, apologizing and vowing to change, only to quickly return
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
