  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
What can we learn from naked mole rats and eusocial living? – tech podcast
Julie Freeman is an artist who creates forms, animations, and soundscapes from
tracking data. She created a multifaceted installation – A Naked Mole Rat
Eutopia – at London’s Somerset House, featuring kinetic sculptures, an
animation and a visualisation, all using live data from the naked mole rat
Naked Mole Rats. A naked mole rat held by Dr Chris G. Faulkes, Reader in
Evolutionary Ecology, School of Biological & Chemical Sciences, Queen Mary,
[ ] Photograph: Antonio Zazueta Olmos/Antonio Olmos
Friday 7 April 2017 09.40 BST Last modified on Friday 7 April 2017 15.05 BST
  • Subscribe and review on iTunes, Audioboom, Mixcloud, Acast or on your
    favourite podcasting app and join the discussion on Facebook and Twitter
What can we do with data gathered from naked mole rats? Could we gain a new
Julie Freeman is an artist who creates forms, animations, and soundscapes from
tracking data. Julie’s been working with Dr Chris Faulkes at Queen Mary
University of London to study the behaviour of naked mole rats, who - like bees
- live in eusocial communities with one breeding female, and workers with
Julie created a multifaceted installation - A Naked Mole Rat Eutopia - at
London’s Somerset House, featuring kinetic sculptures, an animation and a
visualisation, all using live data from the naked mole rat community.
Julie’s work has often featured live tracking data, including The Lake, using
  • Chips With Everything is nominated in the 2017 British Podcast Awards. Vote
  • Follow us on Twitter: @leighalexander, @mriainchambers and @guardianaudio
  • Tell us how technology affects you. Email guardianchips@gmail.com
  • Listen to more Guardian podcasts including Football Weekly, the Story and
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
