  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
What sort of computer do I need to set up a public display?
John helps run a small museum, and they need a screen to show what’s on display
Single-use tablets, or devices running kiosk software, are useful in a range of
[ ] Single-use tablets, or devices running kiosk software, are useful in a
range of premises from museums to supermarkets. Photograph: ddp USA/Rex/
What sort of computer do I need to set up a public display?
John helps run a small museum, and they need a screen to show what’s on display
Thursday 2 February 2017 09.59 GMT Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
    I help run a small museum in a historic building, and it’s hard for anyone
    with mobility issues to access an upper floor. To comply with accreditation
    requirements, we want some way to show what we have on display upstairs,
    On a recent visiting to a National Trust property, I saw a tablet in use
    for this purpose. If we do this, which device would suit our needs? Our
    budget is £200 to £250. If we could use the device for other tasks, such as
    word processing, that would be helpful. Is a Windows PC out of the question
    on this budget? How much more would we need to spend? John
You can use almost any type of computer for this purpose, from a small tablet
to a large all-in-one PC. You can also use almost any operating system,
including Android, Apple’s iOS, Windows and Linux. The best choice will depend
on your programming abilities and factors such as the amount of physical space
available, and whether the device is supervised at all times.
There is, in fact, a huge industry supplying products for this kind of use, and
their names or blurbs often include “kiosk” or “digital signage”. Kiosk systems
include cash machines, ticket sales machines, restaurant menus, surgery and
hotel reception systems, library computers, and public information points
(maps, directions etc). Many museums and art galleries now have large
touch-screen displays that show exhibits and floor plans.
If you put a computer in a public area, people will be tempted to use it for
their own needs. They might look up train times or phone numbers, but some
might find it amusing to get up to no good. Public access devices are therefore
put into a “kiosk mode” that stops people from doing bad things.
This usually means that kiosks only run one specific program. It can be a web
browser, but often it’s custom-written software. In your case, it could be a
If you or your friends see any good kiosk systems, such as the one mentioned in
the National Trust property, perhaps contact the management to ask for details.
Ideally, you want to know the hardware specification, the operating system, and
which kiosk software they used, if any. The major institutions probably have
many different systems supplied by outside specialist companies, so smaller
Also, almost every group has some informal way of communicating with people who
share their interests. It might be a small magazine, a mailing list, a website,
bulletin board or Facebook group, a conference or whatever. Does your museum?
There are probably people out there who had the same problem and did a lot of
In your case, the simplest and cheapest option is a digital photo frame that
endlessly cycles through a set of photos. Many photo frames can also play
videos. Some have motion sensors so they only turn on if someone is nearby. The
Nix Advance X08E (£69.99) is one example, but there are dozens to choose from
The digital photo frame’s main drawback is also its main benefit: it doesn’t do
anything else. You don’t need kiosk software to lock it down.
After that, there’s a trade-off. Android tablets and Apple iPads can do more
than photo frames but not as much as PCs, so they may be less vulnerable to
If your main requirement was to do word processing, email, spreadsheets etc,
then your best option would be to buy a cheap desktop PC and run a cable to a
second screen. However, with a Windows 10 2-in-1, you could use the
touch-screen tablet part to show photos and videos, then attach the keyboard
for work. You could even do that within your budget. Shop around for an HP
Pavilion x2 detachable laptop, a Lenovo Miix 3 or 310, Toshiba Satellite Click
10, Acer Switch or similar model at a discount price.
There are cheaper models – under £150 on Amazon – from smaller brands such as
Linx, iRulu and Vortex. The Linx 1010B must be worth a look at £146.95.
Two warnings. First, check to see if you are getting a current model. It seems
to me that detachables have lost the market to convertibles with 360-degree
hinged screens. Second, all the cheapies have 32GB of storage. If you want lots
of photos and a couple of videos, you may have to put them on an SD card, or
copy them off when you need space for Windows 10 updates. I wrote about the
There are also lots of 10-inch Android tablets that are more expensive than
digital photo-frames but cheaper than Windows 10 convertibles. Some even come
with keyboards for simple word processing, email and web browsing. This time
you will need at least 16GB of storage and preferably an SD card slot as well.
Unfortunately, I don’t know much about cheap Android tablets. I only see the
bigger brands such as Samsung and Asus, plus Amazon Fire variants, and I almost
never use them. Nowadays, I have a 6in Android phone and a 10in Windows 10
2-in-1, so Android tablets are of no practical use.
Not surprisingly, the whole tablet market is in decline. Apple iPad sales fell
by 22% in the latest quarter, and are half what they were at their peak. Ask
around and someone may give your museum a tablet they no longer need.
Windows has long been the most popular operating system for kiosk and signage
applications. If you have Windows Pro or Window 10 Mobile, you could use its
built-in Assigned Access feature to restrict Windows to running a single
program. Unfortunately, it only works with Universal applications from the
Windows Store. (The more flexible AppLocker is only included in the Enterprise
There are, of course, plenty of third-party kiosk programs, but most of them
are aimed at commercial applications. It can be hard to find one that does what
you want, and even harder to find out how much it costs. However, most
companies offer free trial versions, so you can explore the market without
You could look at the FrontFace Lockdown Tool (free) and Antamedia Kiosk
Software for Windows (from $55/£43), and Video Kiosk for Android ($14.99).
Netkiosk runs on both Windows and Android. Yooba Kiosk runs on both Windows and
iOS. Perhaps readers can suggest some good alternatives.
Alternatively, you could use the free and open source Porteus Kiosk to provide
access to photos and videos on your own website. Porteus is an
ultra-lightweight version of Linux that boots from a CD or thumb-drive before
opening Firefox or Chrome at your designated home page. The original operating
Have you got another question for Jack? Email it to Ask.Jack@theguardian.com
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
