  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Which is the best browser for Windows 10: Firefox or Chrome?
Libby would like to know which browser she should use – it may sound simple,
Chrome is the most-popular browser, but it is not without flaws.
[ ] Chrome is the most-popular browser, but it is not without flaws.
Which is the best browser for Windows 10: Firefox or Chrome?
Libby would like to know which browser she should use – it may sound simple,
Thursday 9 February 2017 09.55 GMT Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
    Which is the best web browser for Windows 10: Firefox or Google Chrome?
Over the years, I’ve used and recommended a lot of different browsers for
Windows, including Mosaic, Netscape, Internet Explorer, Maxthon, Firefox,
Chrome and Vivaldi. Times change, and so do web browsers. You can always switch
As mentioned previously, Windows 10 already includes two browsers: Edge and
Internet Explorer 11. Edge is Microsoft’s new browser and replaces Internet
Explorer 11, which is only provided for backwards compatibility with websites
written for IE. Nothing stops you from installing alternatives, either as your
default browser or for other purposes. For example, you can use a separate
browser for Facebook and/or Gmail, to reduce cross-site tracking, or use
different browsers for different Twitter accounts.
I use Firefox most of the time, but I use Vivaldi for some websites, such as
Gmail. I also use Edge for BBC iPlayer and other video sources, because I find
it works better. However, browsers are notorious resource hogs – especially
Chrome – so I may close them when I’m not using them.
Closing and reopening browsers is the new “reboot your PC”. Of course, it’s
only viable if you set your browser to reload existing tabs on restarts. One
advantage of Firefox, Vivaldi, Opera and some others is that they do “lazy
loading”: they only reload a tab when you click on it. This avoids a firestorm
of reloads crippling your PC, especially if you have loads of tabs. (My record
There are four major web browsers, and three of them are designed to profit the
companies that produce them: Apple (Safari), Google (Chrome) and Microsoft
(Edge). Firefox is the only one to put the user’s interests first. Other things
Firefox is also the only major browser based on open-source code. Google
releases the Chromium code as open source, and there are other browsers based
on Chromium. Opera and Vivaldi are examples. However, Google adds proprietary
code to produce Chrome, and others may do the same.
Using multiple browsers helps maintain competition. We don’t want websites to
be optimised for specific browsers (“Google works better with Chrome” etc),
because that cedes too much power to whoever owns it. Ideally, we want both
browsers and websites to follow agreed common standards, not company-specific
Today, all four major browsers use different rendering engines: Blink (Google),
Gecko (Firefox), Trident (Microsoft) and WebKit (Safari). Blink is a fork of
WebKit, which was Apple’s fork of KDE’s open source KHTML, but they are
diverging. (To be picky, Edge uses a fork of Trident, with the legacy junk
Today, all the main browsers perform well on Windows 10, and you can happily
use any or all of them. However, each one has some advantages.
Chrome is the most popular browser and provides the best support for web
standards, though it’s not significantly better than Vivaldi and Opera. It’s
also secure, because the browser is sandboxed for extra protection. Chrome uses
different threads so one bad tab can’t crash the whole browser, though it does
tend to use a lot of memory and resources (add an extension, such as The Great
Suspender), and it eats batteries. It struggles if you open a lot of tabs, and
its interface is unable to cope: each tab shrinks to an unusably small size.
Firefox is generally as fast as Chrome but more configurable, and it’s much
better at handling tabs. You can scroll through dozens of tabs with a
mouse-wheel, pick them off a drop-down list, or find them by typing the site’s
name into the address bar and selecting “Switch to tab”. It uses less memory
than Chrome, but a bad tab can crash the browser. (In my experience, it rarely
happens.) Having too many tabs can slow it down, requiring a restart, but this
Edge is fast, more secure, and claims to be kind to batteries, but it is still
in development. It has the advantage of being plumbed into Windows 10 and
integrated with Cortana – which makes it hard to avoid, even if you don’t like
it. It’s already about as standards compliant as Firefox, which is a bit behind
Chrome/Vivaldi/Opera but well ahead of IE11 and Safari. One of its party tricks
is annotating web pages with a pen or stylus. Its main drawback is a shortage
For privacy and other reasons, I prefer Chromium-based Vivaldi to Chrome. It’s
a “power user” browser and much more configurable. It’s slower to start up, but
it uses “lazy loading”. It handles tabs better than Chrome, by reducing them to
favicons, and by showing a full preview when you hover the mouse over a tab.
You gain a lot for sacrificing a few seconds in load time.
Vivaldi is being developed by some of the people who created the old Opera
browser, hence the musical name. The old Opera browser also aimed at more
sophisticated users, and had its own rendering engine, Presto. The new Opera is
simpler and, like Vivaldi, based on Chromium. It’s worth a look.
Both Vivaldi and Opera can use Chrome extensions, but they don’t all work. I’ve
had much more success with Vivaldi, where you can download extensions from the
All browsers now offer extensions for purposes such as saving passwords safely,
saving browser sessions, downloading embedded videos, and doing image searches
on the fly. There’s a natural tendency to install lots of useful-looking
extensions, but they can cripple browser performance.
The extensions I use include Ghostery (anti-tracking), Session Manager, Mozilla
Archive Format (for saving pages in MHTML) and Extended Statusbar. I also have
extensions for reverse image searches at Google, Bing and TinEye. These are all
for Firefox, but you can often get the same or similar extensions for other
I recommend adopting a two- or even a three-browser strategy. If you load your
main browser with defensive extensions etc, it may not work correctly with some
Since Windows 10 already includes Edge, you can adopt a two-browser strategy by
downloading Firefox or Chrome or Vivaldi, whichever you prefer. Download two
and you will have three rendering engines, which is a good thing.
For normal use, I don’t think there’s much to choose between Firefox and Chrome
/Vivaldi at the moment. My preference for Firefox is based on its ability to
handle a ridiculous number of tabs, plus the fact that it’s not written with
Have you got another question for Jack? Email it to Ask.Jack@theguardian.com
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
