  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Yooka-Laylee review: wide-eyed wonder for nostalgic 90s kids
It may look like a game for children but this primary coloured,
Kickstarter-funded platformer is catnip for 30-somethings who came of age with
[ ] Yooka-Laylee – backed to the tune of £2m on Kickstarter. Photograph:
Yooka-Laylee review: wide-eyed wonder for nostalgic 90s kids
It may look like a game for children but this primary coloured,
Kickstarter-funded platformer is catnip for 30-somethings who came of age with
Tuesday 4 April 2017 16.00 BST Last modified on Tuesday 4 April 2017 18.20 BST
Don’t be fooled by the saccharine paint job, the goggle-eyed supporting cast of
anthropomorphic chestnuts, clouds and refrigerators, or the ear-niggling
lullaby melodies: Yooka-Laylee is a game meticulously crafted, not for
Its nostalgia is plainspoken and precise: the game is a paean to 1997, a time
when Nintendo, in conjunction with its former life-partner, the British games
company Rare, was busily establishing the rules, boundaries and aesthetic of
platform games on the Nintendo 64, the company’s first fully 3D-capable
Yooka-Laylee is not so much a love letter to Super Mario 64, Conker’s Bad Fur
Day and Banjo-Kazooie (both games share a piggy-backing pair of protagonists
and a certain double-barrelled poetry, with those trailing vowels) as a full
For the ex-Rare staff that worked on the game, it’s a way to return to a golden
era, before the company ran off with Microsoft with its deep pockets and empty
soul. For the 30-something players who backed Yooka-Laylee on Kickstarter to
the soaring tune of £2m, it’s a way to return to a time when the platform game
was the medium’s dominant form for creative expression and invention. A way
too, perhaps, to recapture some of the wide-eyed wonder of when video games had
broken into a new dimension, when anything seemed possible, when we still had
Yooka-Laylee … atypically textured and ideas-rich. Photograph: Playtonic
It’s all here: the pea-green hills, the glittering rivers, the ice world, the
well-maintained tombs, the unambiguously evil bad guys, the agonising puns, the
endless trail of bobbing collectibles, the oh-so-daft premise.
The Trumpian business maven Capital B and his put upon assistant Dr. Quack – a
mallard suspended in a jar - have built a factory into which they intend to
funnel all the world’s literature, and rather courageously, considering the
state of modern book publishing, turn it into profit. Yooka, a spritely
chameleon, and Laylee, a flapping bat are having none of it (they are massive
Tolstoy fans, presumably) and scour a half dozen or so Grand Tomes or “worlds”
in Super Mario parlance, in search of Pagies, loose leaves that have escaped
Pagies also hold the key to unlocking the game. When you first arrive in a
Grand Tome, certain pathways trail off, bridges stop midway across a ravine,
and buildings miss entire wings. Once you’ve collected a sufficient number of
Pagies, you can extend the Grand Tome, opening up new areas, routes and
diversions in which yet more Pagies can be harvested.
In this way, progression is synched with collection. Knowledge too, as to reach
the next world you must successfully complete a quiz filled with questions not
only about the characters you met and the places you’ve visited, but also the
choices that you’ve made while playing the game until that point.
Pagies, on the whole, are not found just merely laying about the place. Rather,
they are distributed as rewards for completing tasks in each world. You might
have to light a series of torches in the correct order to solve an anagram, or
race an anthropomorphic cloud around a track that weaves through the
environment. You might have to salve a parched air vent by spitting a stream of
water from your mouth, or smash the teeth of an enraged cave boss, who has
mistaken Yooka and Laylee for a pair of double-glazing salespeople.
Unlike most contemporary games, there are no mission markers driving you from
Unlike most contemporary games, there are no mission markers driving you from
one objective to the next. Rather, these mini-quests are scattered throughout
the world, seemingly one every few metres, and you can take them on in whatever
order you prefer. The absence of handholding (miss a vital clue and you may be
at a loss for what any of the scores of non-player characters need you to do
for them) is deliberate, designed to appeal to those players who yearn for a
time when games were more often playpens for loose discovery, rather than
explicit, ordered to-do lists. The trick works: the richness of each Grand Tome
is revelatory - geographical width is sacrificed for interactive variety and
depth - and unfurls in a delightful way. As you progress deeper into the game,
you unlock new moves and abilities in new worlds that then unlock new pathways
Not everything is well explained. For example, your health bar is represented
by butterflies. To replenish your health you must consume butterflies, which
are dropped, delightfully, by defeated grunts or simply found fluttering around
bushes. Run into the insect and it will disappear in a shower of particles,
which you might suppose has restored your health. In fact, you must eat the
creature with a flicked tongue to consume its benefits. Knocking into a
butterfly merely shoos it away. There are dozens of examples like this, where
systems aren’t adequately explained, or where the instructions aren’t
effectively reinforced either by text or visual effects.
Miss the optional conversation that explains how to switch to first-person
perspective and you may miss how to line up those projectile shots, fired from
Yooka’s mouth, which are crucial for unlocking numerous Pagies. The line
between bothering players with over-explication and bewildering them with
freedom is thin and moveable between individuals. Arguably Yooka-Laylee invests
too much faith in its players, and not enough effort in its user-interface.
Still, it’s perhaps churlish to criticise the game for cleaving to the
sometimes unfashionably punitive designs of those 20-year-old games it
celebrates and impersonates. And for every time you grow frustrated at a
punishing boss fight, there is a vast plethora of diversions with which to
For a game part-funded on Kickstarter Yooka-Laylee feels atypically textured
and ideas-rich. There’s care and finesse – the way that the exquisite
soundtrack seamlessly changes whenever you swim underwater, for example – and a
pleasing self-awareness too; the game is littered with quips that acknowledge
its archaisms. There are jokes about looking up tips on the internet, about
missing key text because you’re busy looking at your phone, or about not having
anyone to play local multiplayer games with as everyone is playing online (the
world includes a stratospheric arcade machine which can be played when you find
Pleasingly, the game continues to add ideas and new, often-bonkers, tools over
its course: lick a cannonball and you’ll be able to temporarily absorb its
power, allowing Yooka to walk steadfastly when faced with a brisk headwind.
What the game loses by not having had a Rare/Nintendo-sized QA department to
smooth its rough edges it compensates for with a princely pile of ideas, and a
lovely control scheme that only improves with elaboration. Younger players may
be less willing to forgive its anachronisms but for its target audience, those
ageing mourners of a lost fashion in games, it’s a promise that’s proven worthy
Xbox One (version tested)/PS4/Linux/MacOS/Windows; £28.99; Pegi 7+
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
