  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Amazon Echo Dot review: as good as the Echo for one-third of the price
Small gadget brings voice control to almost any smart device in the home, while
playing music, answering questions and telling you the weather
[ ] The Amazon Echo Dot is a little puck that connects you via voice to an
intelligent assistant. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
Amazon Echo Dot review: as good as the Echo for one-third of the price
Small gadget brings voice control to almost any smart device in the home, while
playing music, answering questions and telling you the weather
Monday 28 November 2016 07.00 GMT Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
The Amazon Echo Dot is essentially all the bits of an Amazon Echo that make it
interesting, but without the speaker beneath it – and so it costs just
The Dot is one of three Alexa-enabled products from Amazon that puts the
company’s voice assistant front and centre. Only two, the Echo Dot and the Echo
are available in the UK: the third, the portable Bluetooth speaker called
The microUSB cable and 3.5mm audio cable plug into the back. Photograph: Samuel
The Dot is a small black or white puck with a ring of lights at the top, four
buttons and a seven-microphone array – the same system that makes the Echo
speaker so good at hearing you from pretty much anywhere.
It listens out for a “wake word”, which by default is the name of the voice
assistant contained within the Dot: “Alexa”. Say the wake word and the voice
assistant comes to life to answer questions, take commands and perform actions.
The Dot has a small built-in speaker, which is good enough for all the voice
responses Alexa spits out, alarms and other alerts, but is not really designed
Instead the back of the Dot has a audio-out port, which is intended plug into
your existing speakers. Alternatively, it can pair to a wireless speaker via
The white Dot still has a black top, but its simple design doesn’t look out of
place on a bed-side cabinet or speaker. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the
The Dot is surprisingly discreet sitting on a countertop or stuck to the wall.
There’s a rotating light ring around the top that indicates when it’s actively
listening to you and turns red when you hit the mute button, electrically
disconnecting the mics, so you know when it is and isn’t listening in.
The white Dot has a grey top, which means it stands out more than it might on a
white bed-side table, for instance. You can get little jackets for the base in
leather or fabric if shiny plastic doesn’t quite cut it with your decor.
Press the buttons on the top to control the volume of the built-in speaker or
output to your connected speakers. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
The Echo Dot can do whatever Alexa can do. The set up is the same as the Echo:
plug it in, open the Alexa app on your smartphone and follow the instructions
Once up and running, Alexa can perform a variety of your typical assistant
features. It’ll set timers, tell you the time, set alarms, tell you what your
day looks like from your connected calendar, tell you about your commute or the
weather and answer questions about all sorts of things.
Alexa has access to quite a lot of information, but the sheer volume of data
Google has at its fingertips, which means Alexa will struggle with certain
The big difference is that Alexa replies in a surprisingly human way, and can
almost always understand what you’ve said even if it can’t answer the question,
which means it should get better over time as more data is shovelled into the
Alexa has so-called skills that can be added to her. These app-like things give
her new abilities. Lots of companies and services have skills. The Guardian
skill will read you the news, headlines or reviews, for instance. The National
Rail skill will tell you what your rail commute looks like. The Allrecipies
skill will be able to read you one of 60,000 different recipes.
But perhaps the best set of skills available for the Echo Dot are smart home
controls. Here is where the Dot shines: it has a wide range of support for
smart connected devices, from speakers and remote controls, to lights, coffee
machines or anything connected to a Samsung SmartThings hub.
The red light on the mute button and light ring show when Alexa can’t hear you
anymore for when you want a little privacy. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the
Out of the box it works with Philips Hue, while skills exist for Nest, Hive,
Honeywell, Tado, LightwaveRF and LIFX, with Sonos expected soon.
Once hooked up you can command just about anything. You have to remember the
name of the thing you’re trying to command, but within the Alexa app you can
group things to turn them on and off with one command.
Unlike most other smart home systems, a single item can be placed into multiple
groups meaning a bedroom light could be in the “bedroom” group as well as in
the “upstairs” group and perhaps a “house” group, so that you can turn just the
bedroom lights on, the whole of the upstairs or turn off the whole house when
You can also set brightness, colour, scene or anything else your lights
support, but lighting is just the start. Almost any smart home appliance can be
You can set the temperature via a Nest, set the coffee going via a smartplug,
switch the TV on or off, set the channel or do pretty much anything with
The Echo Dot doesn’t have to be used in isolation either. If you’re in earshot
of two Dots or another Echo device, only the nearest one will reply to your
commands. Amazon even sells them in packs: buy five get a sixth free, or buy 10
and get two free. Clearly it wants you to put them all over your house.
Here I’ve used masking across the back of the Dot and a sticky fixer to
temporarily mount it to the wall. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
  • It works surprisingly well when mounted to the wall, but you have to pull
  • When you’ve got it hooked up to speakers the Dot will only output its audio
    through those speakers, so they need to be left on all the time to enable
    it to speak to you even if you’re not playing music
  • IFTTT and Logitech Harmony support are coming soon, which will greatly
  • You have to think carefully about what you’re going to call each of the
    connected devices because you will have to say their names to Alexa for
The Amazon Echo Dot costs £50 in either black or white. The larger Echo costs
The Echo Dot is everything that’s great about the larger Echo speaker condensed
into a small puck that costs one-third of the price.
Being able to voice control things without having to pull out a phone or push a
button marks a massive step forward for the Internet of Things. Activating,
changing, switching things off and firing up automation routines via voice
feels natural and satisfying: there’s nothing quite like marching into a room
Alexa isn’t quite the all-conquering voice assistant it promises to be just
yet, but the Dot gets the job done in a way nothing else can.
    Pros: excellent mic array means it can almost always hear you, small but
    loud enough to be heard clearly, great device support, clear mute, turns
    your old Hi-Fi into a smart, voice-controlled speaker, voice control IoT
    Cons: really needs to be connected to a speaker for music, can’t always
    answer the question, always-listening object in your house, doesn’t support
    multiple user calendars or personal information, only one Spotify or Amazon
  • Amazon Echo review: the best combined speaker and voice assistant in the UK
  • Samsung SmartThings Hub review: an Internet of Things to rule them all?
  • Withings Body Cardio review: stylish scales for health obsessives
  • Nest Learning Thermostat third-gen: the simple, effective heating gadget
  • Logitech Harmony Elite review: easy to use remote that takes charge of your
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
