  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Amazon Fire TV Stick review: cheap, great TV streaming device with new
Voice assistant transforms budget smart TV stick into smarthome powerhouse, but
keeps simple controls, wide UK catchup TV and third-party app support
[ ] The new Amazon Fire TV Stick is faster, with a better interface and Alexa
integrated with a voice-enabled remote making one of the best smart TV boxes
Amazon Fire TV Stick review: cheap, great TV streaming device with new
Voice assistant transforms budget smart TV stick into smarthome powerhouse, but
keeps simple controls, wide UK catchup TV and third-party app support
Amazon’s second generation Fire TV stick – which lets you stream video and apps
on your TV – continues the same winning formula but adds new voice search,
Alexa assistant and a snappier, more polished experience making it one of the
It looks like a USB flash drive, just with an HDMI connector on one end and a
microUSB socket in the side. Set up is incredibly easy. Plug it directly into
the back of your TV or receiver, or use the included HDMI extension cable if it
doesn’t quite fit next to other devices, connect the included microUSB cable to
If you bought the Fire TV Stick directly from Amazon then once you’ve put in
your wifi password, your account details will already be set up and ready. A
few clicks of the Bluetooth remote and a short and useful introductory video
that runs through the basics of voice control and you’re ready to go.
You need an Amazon account to use the Fire TV Stick, but you don’t need a Prime
subscription. Instead you can buy content or use one of the many TV, movie or
music streaming apps available from the Amazon app store, including Netflix,
all the UK terrestrial broadcaster catchup services and Spotify.
While you’ll probably already be logged into your Amazon account, you will
still have to enter usernames and passwords for third-party apps such as
Netflix. The Amazon Fire TV remote app for Android and iOS makes the process
much easier by giving you a full smartphone or tablet keyboard for typing it
all in, which is much less tedious than having to scroll an on-screen keyboard
Plug the HDMI connector into the back of your TV and the included microUSB
cable and power adapter into the port on the side. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for
The new Fire TV Stick works just like any other Amazon Fire TV product and most
other streaming devices. The remote has a small directional ring for navigating
the menu, a back button, home button and an options button, as well as
You don’t have to point the remote in any particular direction, as it’s
Bluetooth not infrared, and takes two AAA batteries which are included. It’s
simple, responsive and the new and improved user interface is both attractive
and easy to use, with nice big pictures of media, apps and menu options.
The most transformative new thing is that the new remote comes with a
microphone built in giving you a one-button push-to-talk functionality. Hold
the mic button at the top of the remote to activate Alexa and ask for what you
want. It’s the same experience you get from an Echo or Echo Dot device, with
full Alexa functionality, but you also get what Amazon calls “cards” that pop
Along with reading out the weather report, Alexa flashes up a card on the
The cards are not interactive, but give at-a-glance visual versions of the
voice output, so when Alexa is telling you it isn’t going to rain that day
Simple search works very well. If you want to watch the Good Wife, simply hold
the button, say “Good Wife” and Alexa will take you to a page showing the Good
Wife and a one-button push to watch it. Where there are multiple ways to view
it, Alexa will always show you the one included in a subscription you might
The Good Wife is available on Netflix, but also available for purchase from
Amazon. If you have a Netflix subscription logged in, hitting play will take
you straight to the next unwatched episode in Netflix. It’s fast, easy to use
and transformative if you know what you want to watch.
You can also search using an actor’s name, genre and many other different
keywords, but I still find browsing through shows still easier if looking for
inspiration, as Amazon or Netflix suggestions are normally better than I would
have come up with on my own. The new Fire TV interface also allows Netflix, and
soon other third-party apps, to suggest content you might be interested in
directly within the home screen under their own carrousels, which is useful.
Voice control extends to playback options too, skipping minutes of video,
pausing, playing and other functions within Amazon Video.
Hold the button and say ‘turn the lights on’. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the
Full Alexa functionality also extends to smarthome control. Anything you might
connect via the Alexa app on your smartphone you can command with the new Fire
TV Stick. Hit the mic button, say “turn on the living room lights” and see any
Amazon has struck a wide range of partnerships with various smarthome device
manufacturers, including Samsung SmartThings, Philips Hue, Nest, Hive and many
others, making it one of the most versatile smarthome voice assistants.
  • Alexa, lights! How I turned my home into a sci-fi dream
  • Jumping straight to a show in Netflix from Alexa uses the last logged in
    user in Netflix, which means you might end up playing through another
  • Voice control is neat, but pressing a button is still quicker
  • There are plenty of games and third-party apps to choose from, with Apple’s
  • You can also cast video to the Fire TV Stick from a smartphone or tablet
  • Parental control options are available to limit purchases and content with
  • The Fire TV Stick maxes out at 1080p, which means no UHD 4K support
  • It’s not quite as fast as the Fire TV box, but it is half the price (it is,
    however, quite a lot faster than the last version of the Fire TV stick)
The new Fire TV Stick with Alexa Voice Remote costs £39.99 making it one of the
best value smart TV streaming devices available, and £5 cheaper than the
The old Fire TV Stick was cheap and effective, but lacked polish. The new Fire
TV Stick takes that winning formula and adds a level of polish and competence
Setting it up is easy. You have to have an Amazon account and are tied into the
firm’s services, but third-party app support is excellent, with all the major
UK TV streaming and catchup services bar Apple’s and Sky’s service.
The Alexa support is transformative, making the Stick much more than a basic TV
streamer, but also doesn’t get in the way. You can still perform every
streaming function without having to utter words, and while Alexa is very
capable, the Fire TV Stick doesn’t try to hard to be more than it is – a very
good smart TV device in a cheap and effective package.
    Pros: simple to use, easy set up, compact, good remote, slick interface,
    wide UK catchup service support, Alexa integration
    Cons: not quite as fast as the more expensive Fire TV box, no support for
    iTunes or Sky content, requires Amazon account, wifi only
  • Amazon Fire TV review: simple, fast, 4K and the best TV streaming
  • Amazon Echo review: the best combined speaker and voice assistant in the UK
  • Amazon Echo Dot review: as good as the Echo for one-third of the price
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
