  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Amazon Fire HD 8 review: cutting the right corners for a decent £90 tablet
With 8in screen, stereo speakers, 16GB of storage and enough performance to
handle games, Fire HD 8 is a good budget tablet that won’t infuriate
[ ] Amazon Fire HD 8 … how good can a £90 tablet be? Photograph: Samuel Gibbs
Amazon Fire HD 8 review: cutting the right corners for a decent £90 tablet
With 8in screen, stereo speakers, 16GB of storage and enough performance to
handle games, Fire HD 8 is a good budget tablet that won’t infuriate
Tuesday 25 October 2016 08.00 BST Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
Amazon’s latest tablet is an 8in media consumption machine that aims to
replicate the success of the £50 Fire, but with a larger, better screen. How
The company’s tablets have been a bit hit and miss. Last year’s Fire HD 10 cut
the wrong corners while costing £170. The £50 Fire, however, was a revelation
in how not rubbish a tablet so low cost could be. Everything about the new Fire
The HD 8 is a simple tablet. A hard, textured plastic case surrounding a glass
screen. It doesn’t feel premium but its not shoddy, and seems like it could
take a knock or two. It flexes a little under pressure, and I reckon if you
tried to you could snap it in half with enough force, but it seems relatively
The 8in 720p display is surprisingly good for video
The 8in 720p display is surprisingly good for video. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs
Held in landscape orientation, one edge has some plastic silver buttons for
power and volume, a microUSB port for charging and a headphones socket. There’s
a small flip-out door hiding a microSD card slot in the top and stereo speakers
At 9.2mm thick it’s not overly chunky, and weighing 341g it’s relatively easy
to hold with one hand for short periods and with two hands to watch a film.
The 8in 720p display is surprisingly good for video, with solid viewing angles
and plenty of brightness when using indoors. Watching something while outdoors
on a sunny day might struggle, but a tablet like this is likely to be mostly
The bottom stereo speakers are actually quite impressive for a tablet of this
calibre. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
With a density of 189 pixels per inch, it isn’t the crispest of displays,
looking like a tablet from about four years ago, rather than the high-density
displays that you might be used to on a smartphone or high-end tablet. It isn’t
awful; text, books, web pages and comics are easily readable, but it isn’t as
pleasant an experience as pricier offerings or an e-ink device such as a
It’s no iPad, but then it’s only £90 so you can buy almost three of them for
The bottom stereo speakers are actually quite impressive for a tablet of this
calibre. They’re clear and quite loud. I couldn’t quite hear them clearly over
the sound of an old washing machine going like the clappers, but they were good
enough to watch TV shows or a movie while making the dinner or sitting on the
sofa. Turning the tablet so they pointed straight up helped.
Given that the HD 8 is aimed at consuming media and playing games, performance
is pretty good for £90. The interface is relatively smooth, with only minimal
lag in most places. Most apps launch fast, but some games take noticably longer
Once they get going, games run fairly well. Even graphically intensive titles
such as Asphalt 8 or Real Racing 3 work well, with no lag between input and
action on the screen, which is the most important thing for gaming.
The HD 8 won’t win any benchmarking awards, but it gets the job done with a
minimum of fuss and without being frustratingly slow.
Charging time takes around six hours to go from zero to 100% – practically
Charging time takes around six hours to go from zero to 100% – practically
glacial these days. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
Battery life on tablets can be a bit hit and miss. The HD 8 would get through
two to three movies before needing a recharge, but setting maximum brightness
reduced that a bit. Graphically intensive games also chewed through battery,
but the HD 8 easily got through the day for mixed use entertainment.
Standby time was impressive. Leaving it untouched for a week, it dropped only
about 40% battery from full with Wi-Fi on, which means you can essentially
charge it up and leave it on a coffee table without worrying about it too much.
Charging time is slow though. It takes around six hours to go from zero to 100%
using the included charger in the box, which is practically glacial compared to
The HD 8 runs a customised version of 2014’s Android 5.0 Lollipop called Fire
OS 5.3. It might be an old version of Android, but Amazon’s customisations
completely change the look and feel and add features that have become common in
Instead of a big grid of apps, Fire OS is based around content. Vertical
shelves hold different types of content segmented into horizontally sliding
panes. There’s a pane that holds recently accessed media and apps, a home pane
with which users can customise with apps and other bits, one for books, one for
While it may not be the best layout for a productivity-focused machine, it puts
content front and centre so its faster to get to the thing you’ve gone to the
It also has features such a Blue Shade, which reduces blue light to help people
sleep better when using the tablet at night, do not disturb functionality and
the ability to have multiple users on the tablet, including a special
limited-access kids account with parental controls.
Amazon’s App Store is quite well stocked with the most popular apps if not the
more obscure gems. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
One big drawback is that the HD 8 does not have access to the Google Play
Store, Google apps or any Google services that cannot be accessed through a
browser. Instead it has Amazon’s App Store, which is quite well stocked with
the most popular apps if not the more obscure gems.
Part of Amazon’s App Store is Underground – a service that provides paid-for
and apps with in-app purchases for free, which is great for kids games and
other apps that could wrack up expensive in-app purchase bills if not careful.
The HD 8 comes with adverts on its lock screen, which are shown each time the
tablet is switched on. They’re not particularly intrusive, but cost £10 to
The HD 8 has a 2-megapixel rear camera, and a front-facing VGA camera producing
0.3-megapixel stills. Neither is much to write home about. The rear camera can
get your point across in a quick snap, but I wouldn’t recommend trying to
The front camera is pretty terrible for still shots, but is passable for video
They say the best camera is the one you have with you. In this case it’s
definitely the phone in your pocket, not the tablet in your hand.
The Fire HD 8 costs £90 with 16GB of storage and adverts on the lockscreen and
homescreen. The 32GB storage version costs £110 with adverts. Removing adverts
costs £10, and the tablet comes in a choice of four colours: black, blue,
To remove adverts from the lockscreen will cost £10. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs
For comparison, the 7in Amazon Fire costs £50, 2015’s Amazon Fire HD 8 cost
£130, and the nearest branded rival tablets from Samsung or Asus cost around
Like the 7in Amazon Fire tablet before it, the HD 8 does a great job of not
being a frustrating, terrible experience for just £90. Is it fantastic? No. But
it’s a tablet for £90 that isn’t terrible, which is an achievement in and of
The screen is pretty good for video and passable for text and images. It feels
well put together, even if it isn’t a premium experience, and with a microSD
card slot and 16GB of storage built in there’s plenty of space for photos,
As with any other Amazon tablet, you really need a Prime subscription to get
the best out of the tablet, with access to Amazon’s movies, TV shows, books and
The question is whether the HD 8 is worth £40 more than the standard 7in Fire.
If the tablet is going to be used primarily for video and games, then it
probably is. The screen is brighter, better quality and slightly higher
It’s a basic experience, but no other new tablet comes close to being as good
as the HD 8 for a regular sale price of under £100. Amazon, as with the £50 7in
Fire, has cut the right corners on the Fire HD 8 and made pretty good budget
    Pros: cheap, microSD card slot, feels durable, good integration with Amazon
    services, lots of free apps in the Amazon App Store, Amazon Underground,
    Cons: average screen, terrible cameras, takes a long time to charge,
    average performance, no access to the Google Play Store
  • Amazon Fire HD 10 review: cutting the wrong corners proves a costly mistake
  • Amazon Fire tablet review: a lot of tablet for just £50
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
