  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Amazon Echo review: the best combined speaker and voice assistant in the UK
Hit US voice-controlled speaker brings Alexa assistant to British homes with
third-party app support, good sound and fantastic voice recognition
[ ] Amazon’s Echo is a voice-controlled speaker that upgrades your home with an
intelligent voice assistant, Alexa. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
Amazon Echo review: the best combined speaker and voice assistant in the UK
Hit US voice-controlled speaker brings Alexa assistant to British homes with
third-party app support, good sound and fantastic voice recognition
Monday 21 November 2016 07.00 GMT Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
Amazon’s Echo voice-controlled smart speaker is finally available in the UK,
The Echo is one of the first devices with Amazon’s voice assistant – a rival to
Apple’s Siri, Google’s Assistant and Microsoft’s Cortana – which allows you to
control music playback just by speaking to it and a whole lot more.
Ask Alexa for the weather and she’ll tell you what’s what, but the Alexa on
your smartphone app will also fire up with more detail. Photograph: Samuel
Echo is three devices in one. It’s a voice-controlled Wi-Fi and Bluetooth
speaker capable of playing music from Amazon music, a Spotify premium account
or a smartphone, tablet or computer connected via Bluetooth.
It’s also a smart voice assistant called Alexa that’s capable of answering
queries, setting timers, doing calculations, telling you the weather or what’s
in your calendar and other bits you might expect from Siri, Cortana or Google
Assistant. It also has third-party app integrations that allow users to
interact with the National Rail app for train times and other similar services.
Finally, Echo is smart-home controller that can turn devices on and off, set
scenes and other internet of things functions just by saying: “Alexa, turn on
The top ring lights up: blue when listening to you; red when muted, which is
clearly visible from across the room. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
Standing 23.5cm tall with a diameter of 8.4cm, the Echo is a small tower
speaker available in black or white. When not active it simply looks like a
black perforated tube, but when spoken to a ring of lights up top sparkle to
indicate activity, state and whether it’s listening to your barked orders.
In its base are two down-firing speakers - one tweeter and one 2.5in woofer -
producing 360-degree audio. At the top are two buttons, one for performing
actions and the other for muting the voice recognition. A rotating ring at the
top acts as a volume control, but in truth you never need to use it or the
It sounds pretty good for a single 360-degree speaker. It’s not going to please
audiophiles or beat a good pair of speakers, but it is fully capable of filling
a room with pretty good sound. It’s not quite as good as a Sonos Play 1, which
also costs £150, but then it is doing a lot more for the same price.
The real magic is the hidden in the top. An array of seven microphones work in
conjunction to do what’s called beam forming – isolating a sound coming from a
particular direction by cancelling out all other noise. The mic array means
Alexa can hear you even when playing music at full blast, or in my case, from
the other end of the kitchen while the washing machine, oven and dishwasher are
I was constantly amazed that it could hear me from the front door, all the way
down the other end of my long and narrow terraced house.
The blue ring of lights shows that the Echo is actively listening to you and
streaming your speech to the cloud to interpret what you’re trying to say. The
white light shows you where the speaker thinks your voice is coming from.
All you need to do to activate Echo is say its wake word - Alexa, Echo or
Amazon, you get a choice - and it will begin listening to your dulcet tones.
Say “Alexa, play some Tycho” and it will start playing a playlist of tracks
from Tycho from Amazon Prime music, presuming you have a Prime account or
Amazon Music Unlimited if you’re a subscriber. In the UK you can also listen to
music from a Spotify premium account, which can be set to default or be used
instead of Prime by just saying “from Spotify” at the end. TuneIn for radio or
the Radioplayer are also available if you’re just after some general music.
Once music is playing, saying “Alexa, turn up the volume” does what you might
expect. The remarkable thing is that the array of mics picks you up even when
it is blasting music at full volume. Or in my case, playing music loud enough
You can skip tracks, of course, switch to radio through TuneIn, or play music
via a Bluetooth source. It can do other useful basic things, such as set
timers, alarms and tell you the time, which is more useful than you might think
If adjusting the volume via voice is a bit of a faff, the top ring twists for
instant volume control with the light ring indicating the current level.
Alexa has access to a wealth of data too. You can ask it questions, get the
weather, the latest news or sport scores, find out when the next game is on or
check a calendar that you’ve connected through the Alexa app on your phone.
Here is where Echo is both amazing and not quite there.
It can answer more questions correctly than Apple’s Siri in my testing, but
can’t quite match the sheer volume of data that Google’s Assistant has access
to. Alexa will normally understand the question, but doesn’t have the answer.
It’s not like it can simply show you a web search.
Amazon also supports third-party apps called “skills”, which are installed
using the Alexa app on your smartphone. Once added, asking Alexa to open or ask
the skill a question provides you with all sorts of features.
The Guardian skill, for instance, can read you the latest headlines from the
Guardian, play podcasts and give you a flash-style update on what’s going on.
The National Rail skill can give you an update on your commute via rail, or
specific train times. Out of the box Alexa can give you traffic updates for
road commutes and the weather, of course. The Tube Status skill does what it
says on the tin, but if it’s all horrible then the Uber skill can order you a
There are cocktail skills that can read out the ingredients for a Tom Collins.
Anything much more complicated than that though and you’ll need a pen and paper
- at which point you might as well use your phone. The Jamie Oliver skill reads
out recipes, but suffers from a similar problem, so it’s a lot easier to enable
the Just Eat skill and ask Alexa to “ask Just Eat to re-order my last Chinese”.
There are more trivia, fact, joke and other random entertainment skills than
you can shake a stick at, while the Sound Machine skill can give you applause
Hit the mute button and the microphones are electrically disconnected. As long
as the light ring and mute button are lit up in red, Echo and Alexa cannot hear
The longer I had Echo in my kitchen the more I got used to it just being there
and being able to do things quicker and more easily than I could, but it took
until I was alone in the house, midway through a DIY project, hands full of
tools, covered in rubbish, bent in an awkward position to reach something and
needing a calculation to proceed that I realised that voice assistants in the
I couldn’t reach my phone, I was tired and even on a good day I wouldn’t be
able to tell you what 57.5 divided by five was. So I simply shouted - I was
pretty stressed at this point - “Alexa, what’s 57.5 divided by five” and from
across the room out she bellowed “11.5”. I marked and I cut and the job was
Could a phone have done that? Of course. Could it has heard me talking through
furniture and at the other end of the room? Probably not. Would I have done
that in public, absolutely not, but the home is the perfect place for a voice
Your devices, groups and smart home skills are all configured through the Alexa
Arguably the most interesting set of skills for Alexa are the ones for
integrating various smart-home devices. There’s nothing quite as cool as
walking into a room and saying “Alexa, lights on in the kitchen” and it
Of course, it depends on which devices you already have or are intending to
buy. Skills exist for Nest, Hive, Honeywell, Tado, LightwaveRF and LIFX; the
Echo works out of the box Philips Hue and soon on Sonos too, although there’s a
Hue skill available for more advanced features such as scene control.
Alexa also has integration with Samsung’s Smartthings Hub, which means that
anything supported by Smartthings, which is basically everything, can be hooked
Setting it up is both simple and complicated. Going into the Alexa app and
adding skills is easy, so is setting discovery, or you can simply say “Alexa,
discover devices” and she’ll do as required. They’re all listed in the Alexa
app, which if you have even just a few smart bulbs can easily produce a massive
For instance, each scene available for each bulb is listed as a separate entry.
I easily had more than 150 entries in my smart home list with duplications -
Hue bulbs showed up once from the Hue skill and again from the Smartthings Hub.
You can configure what’s visible and what isn’t to Alexa within the various
skills, or make Alexa forget them directly. You have to do it one-by-one, which
The Echo is available in black or white. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the
You also have to consider what you call all your devices. You have to be able
to say them easily and Alexa has to be able to understand what you’re on about.
Numbering lights one, two and three in each room doesn’t work well, for
instance. If you tell Alexa to turn off the bedroom light, but you have more
than one light in the room called bedroom light, she will ask which one.
The easiest thing to do is to call each light or device something separate and
then group them together within the Alexa app. I grouped all my devices into a
massive group called “house”. This meant I could walk out the door and shout
I also created groups for individual rooms, upstairs, downstairs and the
hallway, so that they were easy to command for each place in my house. The
groups overlapped so that I could command more than one rooms’ lights in one
go. It took a bit of thought to work out what was going to be easy to remember
  • Alexa differentiates between the singular and plural of words - light
  • Talking to it like a human gets better results than like a robot in
  • The Alexa app on your phone is relatively slow - use it where you have
  • House guests were amazed by Echo - it is definitely a statement piece in a
  • You can buy products from Amazon via voice, which works just fine if you
    know what you’re after, but it’s a lot easier to just pull out a smartphone
The Amazon Echo is available in either black or white for £149.99.
The only other similar competitor is Google Home, which is not yet available in
The Amazon Echo is a device that once you get into your home you’ll find more
and more uses for it. The question is really whether it does something that’s
It’s a pretty good speaker, but not the best. It has fantastic voice
recognition and can hear you from anywhere over anything. It will pretty much
always understand what you’re saying but can’t always help you out with it. It
has third-party apps for most things and more appear each day.
Is voice the best way to access everything? No. Is it the most convenient for a
lot of things? Absolutely. The potential privacy implications of having an
internet-connected listening device in your home aside, having something that
understands you and just does what you need nine times out of 10 is brilliant.
The Echo is the best voice assistant-come-speaker you can buy in the UK at the
moment. But it won’t be the only one in the near future. Google’s Home has the
advantage of access to more data than anything else on the planet, but data is
only one part of the equation. Being able to hear and understand you every time
is the most important thing for a voice-only object and Amazon has absolutely
    Pros: can almost always hear you, mute button electrically disconnects the
    mics, rotating light ring obvious, lots of third-party apps, sounds pretty
    good, sounds more human than any other voice assistant
    Cons: can’t always answer the question, always-listening object in your
    house, doesn’t support multiple user calendars or personal information,
    only one Spotify or Amazon music account can be linked at any one time
  • Samsung SmartThings Hub review: an Internet of Things to rule them all?
  • Withings Body Cardio review: stylish scales for health obsessives
  • Nest Learning Thermostat third-gen: the simple, effective heating gadget
  • Logitech Harmony Elite review: easy to use remote that takes charge of your
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
