  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Backdoor access to WhatsApp? Rudd's call suggests a hazy grasp of encryption
UK home secretary wants police to be able to access WhatsApp, but any backdoor
[ ] Governments are increasingly butting against technology companies over
encryption and security. Photograph: Jonathan Brady/PA
Backdoor access to WhatsApp? Rudd's call suggests a hazy grasp of encryption
UK home secretary wants police to be able to access WhatsApp, but any backdoor
Monday 27 March 2017 11.35 BST First published on Monday 27 March 2017 
Tech companies are facing demands from the home secretary, Amber Rudd, to build
backdoors into their “completely unacceptable” end-to-end encryption messaging
apps. Speaking on Sunday, just five days after a terror attack in Westminster
killed five and injured more than 50, she said “there should be no place for
This may sound familiar. Two years ago, after the Charlie Hebdo attack in
Paris, the then British prime minister David Cameron said Britain’s
intelligence agencies should have the legal power to break into the encrypted
communications of suspected terrorists. He promised to legislate for it in
Governments are increasingly butting against technology companies over
encryption and security, and not just on messaging services. In the standoff
between Apple and the FBI over the San Bernardino shooter’s iPhone, the tech
giant stood firm. It refused to compromise the security of its operating system
and in the process the security of all other iPhone users. Eventually the FBI
was forced to find another way to access the device.
WhatsApp must not be ‘secret place for terrorists to communicate’, says home
Cameron’s legislation has not happened, and there’s a simple reason; encryption
is a binary. Either something is encrypted, and thus secure from everyone, or
it’s not. As the security expert Bruce Schneier has written: “I can’t build an
access technology that only works with proper legal authorisation, or only for
people with a particular citizenship or the proper morality. The technology
just doesn’t work that way. If a backdoor exists, then anyone can exploit it.”
That’s the crux of the problem. While you can legislate to only give state
agencies access to terrorists’ communications, and with proper oversight and
authorisation, you cannot actually build encryption that works like that. If
you put a backdoor in, it’s there not just for security services to exploit,
but for cyber-criminals, oppressive regimes and anyone else.
So how do you allow security services access to terrorist communications? The
UK government could conceivably ban messaging companies that offer end-to-end
encryption from operating in the UK. However, it is not clear how you would
enforce that – and indeed it would be the people who do not want to be
Some argue banning end-to-end encryption entirely is a price worth paying for
greater safety. But idea that “the innocent have nothing to fear” does not
stand up to scrutiny. They do; they may not have anything to fear from the
government, but they would be vulnerable to criminals who would also take
Fortunately, Rudd appears not to want to go down that road. She put the
emphasis on working with the tech companies to find a solution rather sweeping
legislation. Later, she clarified her views on encryption. She told Sky’s Sophy
Ridge on Sunday programme: “End-to-end encryption has a place. Cybersecurity is
really important and getting it wrong costs the economy and costs people money,
She said she supports end-to-end encryption for families (presumably those
using WhatsApp?), for banking and for business. But she insisted: “We also need
to have a system whereby when the police have an investigation, where the
security services have put forward a warrant signed off by the home secretary,
we can get that information when a terrorist is involved.”
Ridge challenged Rudd that this was “incompatible with end-to-end encryption”.
Rudd said it wasn’t. But Ridge is right: it is incompatible. As Cory Doctorow
wrote when Cameron was suggesting the same thing: “It’s impossible to overstate
how bonkers the idea of sabotaging cryptography is to people who understand
information security.” A lot of things may have changed in two years but the
government’s understanding of information security does not appear to be one of
Where Rudd is on firmer ground is in promising more action on hate-filled
terrorist content. Other countries – notably Germany – are using legislation to
make tech companies responsible for content on their platforms, with fines to
help enforce compliance. Rudd could do the same in the UK, although she says
she’s keener to work with the industry and talks of the companies getting round
She told Marr the best people to solve the problem were those “who understand
the technology, who understand the necessary hashtags to stop this stuff even
being put up”. Whether Rudd knew what she meant by “the necessary hashtags” is
unclear. Maybe these magical “necessary hashtags”, which can apparently stop
the posting of extremist content, can also be repurposed to let the government
read only terrorists’ messages, all without breaking encryption. Or maybe they
In the wake of a shocking terror attack, and with pressure from the press to
take a tougher line with the tech companies, it’s easy to see how Rudd felt the
need to be seen to be doing something. Perhaps she knows full well that
selectively breaking encryption is not possible. But perhaps it is also true
the home secretary would rather the focus was on the workings of WhatsApp than
on her own department, the police or security services.
    Minister explains Rudd's 'necessary hashtags' after week of confusion
    Home Office minister says home secretary was talking about hashes, which
    are used to detect recurring images or videos online
    Minister explains Rudd's 'necessary hashtags' after week of confusion
    Top tech firms avoid encryption issue in government talks
    Executives commit to removing extremist material but do not address Amber
    Top tech firms avoid encryption issue in government talks
    Met chief: tech industry must put house in order after Westminster attack
    Acting commissioner Craig Mackey, who witnessed attack, says terror
    incidents across Europe are wake-up call to firms
    Met chief: tech industry must put house in order after Westminster attack
    UK government can force encryption removal, but fears losing, experts say
    Investigatory Powers Act lets UK compel removal of electronic protection
    but it would face enforcement challenges and risk driving targets to other
    UK government can force encryption removal, but fears losing, experts say
      □ Amber Rudd seeks more EU action over online extremism
        Amber Rudd seeks more EU action over online extremism
      □ No 10 repeats Rudd's call for authorities to access encrypted messages
        No 10 repeats Rudd's call for authorities to access encrypted messages
      □ WhatsApp must be accessible to authorities, says Amber Rudd
        WhatsApp must be accessible to authorities, says Amber Rudd
      □ Call for encryption ban pits Rudd against industry and colleagues
        Call for encryption ban pits Rudd against industry and colleagues
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
