  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Call for encryption ban pits Rudd against industry and colleagues
A previous plan to ban end-to-end encryption was dropped after widespread
[ ] Amber Rudd called for wider powers to access services such as WhatsApp
after the Westminster attack. Photograph: SilverHub/Rex/Shutterstock
Call for encryption ban pits Rudd against industry and colleagues
A previous plan to ban end-to-end encryption was dropped after widespread
Sunday 26 March 2017 16.45 BST Last modified on Sunday 26 March 2017 23.15 BST
Amber Rudd’s call for “no hiding place for terrorists” on the web echoes and
revives David Cameron’s 2015 proposal to ban end-to-end encryption on services
That proposal was dropped from the “snooper’s charter” legislation because of
widespread opposition in the tech industry and from Conservative libertarians,
including David Davis, now Brexit secretary and one of the home secretary’s
Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, raised concerns at the time of
Cameron’s proposal to place a legal obligation on internet companies to help in
operations to bypass the encryption of their services. “Any backdoor is a
backdoor for everyone. Everybody wants to crack down on terrorists. Everybody
wants to be secure. The question is how. Opening a backdoor can have very dire
Rudd said on Sunday that she wanted people like Cook to think again about
helping to build “backdoors” into services so that end-to-end encryption would
be banned. Encryption is unbreakable code that currently ensures that online
messages and transactions on services such as WhatsApp are unreadable if they
are intercepted by any third party, including the security services.
Davis spelled out what those dire consequences might be at the time the issue
was last debated. He said in a Financial Times article in November 2015: “Such
a move would have had devastating consequences for all financial transactions
and online commerce, not to mention the security of all personal data. Its
consequences for the City do not bear thinking about.”
Davis added that provisions in the Investigatory Powers Act, then being brought
before parliament as a bill, would prevent new encrypted services from being
offered in Britain. “Instead, government policy is likely to strangle UK tech
businesses, by prohibiting the spread of encryption to those services that do
not already use it,” his FT article continued. “This will put our
communications companies at a severe disadvantage, as their overseas
competitors are permitted to offer fully secure services forbidden to UK
It is likely that Rudd’s revived proposal will face the same scale of criticism
and the warning that it could severely handicap Britain’s growing digital
industry at a time of great uncertainty in a post-Brexit world.
The home secretary’s demand for wider powers to ban encrypted services is
surprising in the aftermath of the Westminster terror attack, even after the
disclosure that Khalid Masood used the encrypted WhatsApp service just before
This is because on Friday, even a former head of GCHQ had acknowledged that the
Investigatory Powers Act – the snooper’s charter legislation, which has only
just reached the statute book – already contained the most sweeping digital
The home secretary is due meet the web giants Google, Facebook and Twitter on
Thursday and demand that they do more to deny terrorist groups the use of their
social media platforms and access to related advertising revenue. The meeting
is likely to be a replay of a summit held at the Cabinet Office on Friday a
week ago, when junior Home Office and Cabinet Office ministers read the web
MPs such as Yvette Cooper, the chairman of the Commons home affairs committee,
have rightly criticised the web companies for failing to remove offensive
videos from YouTube and demanded that they carry out far more proactive
searches for terrorist and extremist material that can be used to radicalise
But as the companies point out, part of the problem lies in the lack of any
legally robust definition of what constitutes extremist material. Whitehall
lawyers have been working for the past 18 months on a definition that can be
used to curb non-violent extremism without being struck down by legal
challenges based on freedom of expression. The lawyers have failed to settle on
one, and the web companies say that while they can act swiftly to take down
illegal material, it is much more fraught if the material is regarded as
The web companies also point out that some of the Islamist or jihadi videos
complained about do not actually infringe their guidelines. This is because
they consist of Islamist songs or general material about jihad and not the kind
of specific incitement that falls within the legal definition. It is akin to
having demanded a ban on Irish Republican songs at the height of the Troubles.
In the face of these problems, the threat by the home secretary of new laws to
force the web companies to act may prove problematic.
    Minister explains Rudd's 'necessary hashtags' after week of confusion
    Home Office minister says home secretary was talking about hashes, which
    are used to detect recurring images or videos online
    Minister explains Rudd's 'necessary hashtags' after week of confusion
    Top tech firms avoid encryption issue in government talks
    Executives commit to removing extremist material but do not address Amber
    Top tech firms avoid encryption issue in government talks
    Met chief: tech industry must put house in order after Westminster attack
    Acting commissioner Craig Mackey, who witnessed attack, says terror
    incidents across Europe are wake-up call to firms
    Met chief: tech industry must put house in order after Westminster attack
    UK government can force encryption removal, but fears losing, experts say
    Investigatory Powers Act lets UK compel removal of electronic protection
    but it would face enforcement challenges and risk driving targets to other
    UK government can force encryption removal, but fears losing, experts say
      □ Amber Rudd seeks more EU action over online extremism
        Amber Rudd seeks more EU action over online extremism
      □ Backdoor access to WhatsApp? Rudd's call suggests a hazy grasp of
        Backdoor access to WhatsApp? Rudd's call suggests a hazy grasp of
      □ No 10 repeats Rudd's call for authorities to access encrypted messages
        No 10 repeats Rudd's call for authorities to access encrypted messages
      □ WhatsApp must be accessible to authorities, says Amber Rudd
        WhatsApp must be accessible to authorities, says Amber Rudd
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
