  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Living under a tarp next to Facebook HQ: 'I don't want people to see me'
The sprawling Silicon Valley campus has cafes, bike repair services, even dry
cleaning. But across the road a homeless community epitomizes the wealth gap
Celma Aguilar, who has been homeless for three years as the result of drug
addiction, spends nights at an encampment across the street from Facebook’s
[ ] Celma Aguilar, who has been homeless for three years as the result of drug
addiction, spends nights at an encampment across the street from Facebook’s
Living under a tarp next to Facebook HQ: 'I don't want people to see me'
The sprawling Silicon Valley campus has cafes, bike repair services, even dry
cleaning. But across the road a homeless community epitomizes the wealth gap
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation About this content
Friday 31 March 2017 11.00 BST Last modified on Friday 31 March 2017 17.17 BST
In a patch of scrubland across the road from the Facebook headquarters in
Silicon Valley, a woman named Celma Aguilar recently walked along some
overgrown train tracks. She stopped where a path forked into some vegetation,
just a few hundred yards from the tourists taking photos by an enormous image
“Welcome to the mansion,” Aguilar said, gesturing to a rudimentary shelter of
The campsite is one of about 10 that dot the boggy terrain, and are a striking
sight alongside the brightly painted, low-slung buildings housing the
multi-billion-dollar corporation. The contrast epitomizes the Bay Area wealth
Harold Schapelhouman, a fire chief whose department has dealt with
conflagrations on the land, said he was struck by the disparities. “Their
employees are very well taken care of. They have on-site medical facilities,
dry cleaning, bicycle repair, they feed them and there are restaurants that are
there. It’s amazing what Facebook does for its employees. And yet within
eyeshot – it really isn’t that far – there are people literally living in the
Schapelhouman said he was not blaming Facebook, though it is true that the
success of technology companies has driven up real estate prices in the area.
As a whole, California is one of the lowest-ranking US states for the
availability of affordable housing, and has one-fifth of America’s homeless
population. Irrespective of the utopianism that imbues Silicon Valley culture,
the tech campuses are not immune to these broader social problems.
An aerial view of the Facebook campus on the edge of the San Francisco Bay. The
land that the homeless encampments are on lies across the main road.
An aerial view of the Facebook campus on the edge of the San Francisco Bay. The
land that the homeless encampments are on lies across the main road.
Aguilar, 44, said she was aware of the Facebook HQ, though she wasn’t quite
sure what happened there as it always seemed so quiet. “Can I get a job there?
The land where the encampments are located belongs largely to the state and
private owners, and it takes 10 minutes to walk from one end to the other.
Aguilar pointed out a pond, covered with scum, at which she said she sometimes
washed. One campsite spills out from a huge clump of marshy greenery. Another
is reached via a railway sleeper slung across a strip of water where a number
Salvadorian by birth, Aguilar said she once worked in nursing homes and at
Burger King, and had four children. She said she had been homeless for about
three years as a result of a crystal meth addiction, and thought she suffered
from mental illness. “Can you see how the trees move?” she said as she sat on
the rusted train tracks. “I like to think they’re talking to me.”
    It’s amazing what Facebook does for its employees. And yet within eyeshot
Friend requests and instant messages presumably zing back and forth on the
other side of the street christened Hacker Way, but Aguilar said she had lost
her Facebook password. “No matter what I do they don’t want to give it back to
A man named Rafael Barajas Ortiz, living in a lean-to amid mud and trash, said
that, like Aguilar, he had no phone. Another resident opened the door of his
shelter, which was blocked off by fencing made of woven branches, and said “I
don’t use Facebook”, before declining to be interviewed further.
Passing by on his bike, a local named Jesus said he did log on to the site, but
he faced a problem familiar to many homeless people: he had nowhere to charge
his phone. (He showed the Guardian his profile. The public pictures offered no
A homeless encampment near Facebook headquarters. Photograph: Alastair Gee for
Although it is not widely known, phone ownership and even social media usage
are relatively common among homeless people, even if not those living next to
Facebook. One Bay Area survey of around 250 homeless people found that 62% had
phones. A study of homeless youth in Los Angeles indicated that more than
Outside in America: learn more about our ongoing homelessness project
Devices and service plans are readily available because the federal government
offers subsidized cellular service to low-income Americans. It is known as the
Obamaphone program both to its users and its rightwing critics, but in fact it
originated as a landline subsidy during the Reagan era. The minimum standards
specify 500 minutes per month of talk time or 500 megabytes of 3G data, and
“They use the phone for exactly the same reasons we use it,” said Allan Baez,
who launched a program that involved giving hundreds of free, Google-donated
phones to homeless people. The cameras are particularly popular. “They are
individuals, they have kids, they have friends, they have good moments, and you
A Facebook spokesperson declined to comment on the encampments, though he noted
that the company’s investments in local affordable housing include an $18.5m
commitment announced late last year. Otherwise, the county provides an array of
homeless services, and its homeless numbers have dipped a moderate amount,
The sign welcoming visitors to Facebook’s campus. The company recently said it
The sign welcoming visitors to Facebook’s campus. The company recently said it
would invest $18.5m in local affordable housing. Photograph: Bloomberg/
Standing amid waving grass near a campsite, Gonzalo Apale, in a filthy jacket
and work boots, described social media access as almost a marker of his
progress in life. “I’ll try to get a telephone very soon, I’ll use Facebook
Still, he tries to avoid walking on the same side of the road as the Facebook
campus “because I don’t want people to see me like this”, he said. “Because
Towards sunset, Aguilar took a path that spiraled up a small hill to a clearing
“I’m going to make my house here,” she explained, gesturing at a partially
unfurled tent. The Facebook campus was visible through the tops of the bushes.
    The activists with homes who sleep on the street: 'Our survival is against
    Three people will appear in a Denver court to contest ‘unauthorized
    camping’ tickets, but one of the defendants says she was only ‘sleeping
    The activists with homes who sleep on the street: 'Our survival is against
    As Waikiki moves homeless out of tourist zones, some fear perpetual
    The homeless population has dropped by 83% over the past two years since a
    sit-lie ban went into effect, but some in Hawaii fear enforcement has gone
    As Waikiki moves homeless out of tourist zones, some fear perpetual
    100-year-old San Francisco woman dies one month after losing eviction
    Iris Canada’s fight to stay in the home she had lived in for more than 50
    years became a symbol of the city’s housing crisis
    100-year-old San Francisco woman dies one month after losing eviction
    The tiny houses where homeless people seek shelter – in pictures
    Wooden cabins are increasingly viewed as a quick and cheap solution to
    homelessness and, with minimal public debate, are mushrooming across the US
    The tiny houses where homeless people seek shelter – in pictures
      □ Tiny houses: salvation for the homeless or a dead end?
        Tiny houses: salvation for the homeless or a dead end?
      □ Get outta town: startup offers workers $10,000 if they 'delocate' from
        Get outta town: startup offers workers $10,000 if they 'delocate' from
      □ Entire homelessness agency could be eliminated by Trump's budget cuts
        Entire homelessness agency could be eliminated by Trump's budget cuts
      □ Mannequin sting catches suspect in Las Vegas homeless murders
        Mannequin sting catches suspect in Las Vegas homeless murders
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
