  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Gordon Ramsay's father-in-law admits hacking chef's computers
Guilty pleas by Chris Hutcheson and his sons Adam and Chris at Old Bailey, with
[ ] Chris Hutcheson, father of Ramsay’s wife, Tana, on his way to court on
Gordon Ramsay's father-in-law admits hacking chef's computers
Guilty pleas by Chris Hutcheson and his sons Adam and Chris at Old Bailey, with
Tuesday 11 April 2017 13.44 BST First published on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
Gordon Ramsay’s father-in-law and two of his brothers-in-law have admitted
hacking computers at the celebrity chef’s restaurant and business empire during
Chris Hutcheson and two of his sons – Adam and Chris Jr – pleaded guilty at the
Old Bailey on Tuesday to charges of conspiring to cause a computer to access
Hutcheson, 68, the father of Ramsay’s wife, Tana, and his sons hacked the
computer system at Gordon Ramsay Holdings between 23 October 2010 and 31 March
2011. Hutcheson’s daughter, Orlanda Butland, denied the charge but the
prosecution offered no evidence in her case, in effect withdrawing proceedings.
In October 2010, Hutcheson was sacked by Ramsay as chief executive of Gordon
Ramsay Holdings. The following year the pair ended up in a high court battle,
with Ramsay alleging his computers had been hacked and blaming Hutcheson amid
claims that emails between Ramsay and Tana had been read by a third party.
The Hutchesons were charged under Operation Tuletta, one of several
investigations that followed revelations of phone hacking involving the media.
Its main focus was the illegal interception of messages on computers, which can
be done in several ways, including the installation of spyware.
The judge, Gerald Gordon, adjourned sentencing to 2 June. The defendants were
released on bail and face a maximum possible sentence of two years in prison.
The court heard Hutcheson was due to go into hospital this month for a hip
Hutcheson has a home in Druillat, France, but gave his address as Earlsfield,
south-west London. Chris Hutcheson Jnr, 37, lives in Welwyn Garden City,
Hertfordshire, and Adam Hutcheson, 46, lives in Sevenoaks, Kent.
Ramsay has restaurants around the world and a television career in the UK and
US. Famed for his short temper and prolific swearing, his businesses ran into
trouble after years of expansion. They have since been restructured and
Hutcheson’s interests were bought out by Ramsay in order to sever all ties
Ramsay and Tana married in 1996 and have four children.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
