  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Honor 6X review: a lot of phone for the money, shame about the old software
A big 5.5in screen, solid build and feel, a great fingerprint scanner and
dual-Sim support means latest Huawei Honor is a solid, good value smartphone
[ ] The Honor 6X ticks most of the right boxes at a reasonable price, with good
battery life, performance and camera. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
Honor 6X review: a lot of phone for the money, shame about the old software
A big 5.5in screen, solid build and feel, a great fingerprint scanner and
dual-Sim support means latest Huawei Honor is a solid, good value smartphone
Monday 30 January 2017 09.00 GMT Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
Huawei’s Honor line has been making a name for itself by selling good yet
reasonably priced smartphones. The Honor 6X is no exception, even if it isn’t
Last year’s Honor 5X offered a lot of smartphone for the money at a time when
the stalwart of the good-but-cheap smartphone market, the Moto G series, was
faltering. Now the Honor 6X has a lot to live up to.
Rounded sides and a curved back make the 6X nice to hold.
Rounded sides and a curved back make the 6X nice to hold. Photograph: Samuel
The Honor 6X looks like a slightly smaller version of the Huawei Mate 9. It’s
got a metal back, plastic top and bottom edges, a dual camera in vertical
orientation and a fingerprint sensor on the back. The front is plain and all
glass. It’s a simple, attractive design that’s more rounded and smoother than
It’s well made, with very little flex in the body. At 8.2mm thick the 6X is the
same thickness as the 5X, but thinner by 1.6mm than the Moto G4 Plus. The 6X is
also shorter by 4mm than the 5X, but whether you could tell that by looking at
It weighs 162g, which is actually heavier than the 158g 5X and the 155g Moto G4
Plus, but the curved back and rounded edges make it feel a lot nicer in the
hand. It feels reassuringly heavy with good balance rather than being a lump.
The 5.5in 1080p LCD screen is very good for a smartphone costing under £250,
and is improved over the 5X, although it doesn’t quite match up to the likes of
Apple’s iPhone or Samsung’s AMOLED displays in its S range. It looks relatively
crisp, clear and colourful, with wide viewing angles. The included screen
protector is useful, but sort of ruins the smooth glass curve down to the
  • Operating system: EMUI 4.1 based on Android 6 Marshmallow
  • Camera: 12MP+2MP dual rear camera, 8MP front-facing camera
  • Connectivity: LTE, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth 4.1, GPS, dual-Sim
The Honor 6X has no USB-C, only a microUSB. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the
The Honor 6X has Huawei’s own processor, the Kirin 655, which handled games and
apps with aplomb. The in graphically-rich Real Racing 3, for instance, gameplay
was buttery smooth and the 6X only got slightly warm while playing. It was
responsive and snappy throughout normal Android operations and in no way felt
like anything other than a premium device in operation.
Battery life was also very good. Using it as my primary device, even with the
Facebook app installed, and receiving hundreds of push notifications, emails
and messages, as well as browsing the web and using apps for around three
hours, I would finish the day with about half the battery left. The next
morning it would only have dropped about 3% battery overnight and would last
Most users will get somewhere between 1.5 days and well over two days of use
between charges, more if you leave it alone for long periods as Huawei’s app
control prolongs standby time immeasurably compared to most other Android
It also charges a lot faster than the 5X, which means when it does run out it
takes just over an hour rather than a good two to reach 100%.
The 6X also has dual-Sim support, for using two numbers or plans at the same
time with the same phone, but the second Sim slot also doubles as a microSD
card slot for adding more storage, which means it’s either or but not both.
The Honor 6X has a microUSB port, not the new USB-C port for charging, which is
disappointing. It might be helpful in the short term to be able to use your
existing microUSB cables, but soon almost everything will use USB-C and the
Emotion UI is Huawei’s modified version of Android, and while other Huawei
devices such as the Mate 9 have EMUI5, the Honor 6X has the older 4.1.
Emotion UI is Huawei’s modified version of Android, and while other Huawei
devices such as the Mate 9 have EMUI5, the Honor 6X has the older 4.1.
If there’s one weakness to the Honor 6X, it’s the software. It has an old
version of Android 6 Marshmallow, not the current Android 7 Nougat, which for a
new smartphone going on sale over four months after Nougat was released is
At the same time Huawei makes modifications to the basic Android experience
which are a mixed bag. Some tweaks such as aggressive control of background
applications and notifications when they’re draining your battery are good.
The removal of the app drawer in favour of every app installed having to be on
the home screen is not. Some people like Huawei’s so-called Emotion UI - EMUI
EMUI 5, which the Honor 6X is due to get relatively soon, is a big step up, but
for now it’s stuck with the same version of EMUI as the Honor 8 and Huawei P9.
For more information on EMUI 4.1, please see the Huawei P9 review.
The camera on the Honor 6X works well even in low light.
The camera on the Honor 6X works well even in low light. Photograph: Samuel
The dual camera on the back produces really quite good images, with accurate
colour and a solid amount of detail in all conditions short of really poor
light. The 12-megapixel sensor captures the images and the auxiliary
2-megapixel sensor below it captures depth information. Using the two, with a
special wide-aperture mode, you can take a variable aperture photo for various
blurring effects, but also refocus the picture after the fact.
The HDR mode is not built into the main shooting mode, and while it is easily
one of the best cameras for the price, it won’t trouble the best there is
available on a smartphone for sheer image quality.
The 8-megapixel front-facing selfie camera is fixed focus, which eliminates
out-of-focus shots, but also means you’re unlikely to get anything with a
pleasing out-of-focus background. Nevertheless, it captures a really good
amount of detail in photos, even in poor artificial lighting conditions, and
has enough beauty modes to satisfy all but the most self-obsessed.
The fingerprint scanner on the back of the Honor 6X is very good.
The fingerprint scanner on the back of the Honor 6X is very good. Photograph:
  • The fingerprint sensor is very fast and very accurate
  • The fingerprint scanner can be used to swipe through photos or pull down
  • Call quality was good, and reception and data speeds were excellent
  • Some versions of the Honor 6X, including the US variant, do not have NFC
    and therefore no access to Android Pay and on-touch pairing
The Honor 6X costs £224 and is available in grey, silver or gold. For
comparison, the Moto G4 Plus costs £190 and the Honor 8 costs £370.
The Honor 6X is another excellent reasonably-priced smartphone from Huawei and
It has a great camera, good build, dual-Sim and microSD card support, a snappy
processor, a decent screen and good battery life. But it has an old version of
Android without the latest security updates, an inferior version of Huawei’s
If those faults can be overlooked then the Honor 6X is a great phone for less
    Pros: good cameras, good screen, dual-Sim, microSD card support, good
    battery life, great fingerprint scanner, great value
    Cons: old version of Android, EMUI not to everyone’s taste, microUSB not
  • OnePlus 3T review: the top-end smartphone that won’t break the bank
  • Huawei Mate 9 review: big screen, long battery life and dual cameras
  • Honor 8 review: Huawei’s cheaper smartphone is just short of brilliant
  • Honor 5X review – a lot of phone for the money, let down by poor software
  • Moto G4 and G4 Plus review: great phone, no longer quite so budget
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
