  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Huawei Mate 9 review: big screen, long battery life and dual cameras
Not many phablets have bigger screens than 5.9in but Chinese smartphone makes
big work with excellent battery life, camera and improved software
[ ] The Huawei Mate 9 is a great big-screened phablet that’s fast and lasts
about two days between charges. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
Huawei Mate 9 review: big screen, long battery life and dual cameras
Not many phablets have bigger screens than 5.9in but Chinese smartphone makes
big work with excellent battery life, camera and improved software
Friday 25 November 2016 05.00 GMT Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
Huawei’s Mate 9 is a phablet that tries to squeeze a monster screen into a
Given the demise of the Samsung Galaxy Note 7 owing to exploding batteries the
top-end of the phablet market is open for the first time in years.
Huawei’s Mate series - its big screened but until recently, niche phablet - has
been around for a while. The Mate 9 is the latest and greatest, and while it
doesn’t look much different from the outside than its predecessor the Mate 8,
it’s now more widely available than ever and targeting that vacant spot at the
The metal back has two colour-matched plastic windows at the top and bottom for
the antennas. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
The Mate 9 doesn’t share much in the way of design likeness to Huawei’s
flagship P9. The front is pretty plain: a screen with tiny bezels either side
with a top bar containing the earpiece speaker and selfie camera and the bottom
It’s got one of the highest screen-to-body ratios of any smartphone available,
which is good, because the screen really is ginormous at 5.9in. There have been
a few devices with larger screens, but not many. For instance, Apple’s iPhone 7
Plus and Google’s Pixel XL have 5.5in screens, while Samsung’s Note series
The curved aluminium back and chamfered edges make it a lot easier to hold on
to the Mate 9 than you might expect. I say easier, because it certainly isn’t
as easy to use as a normal, non-monster smartphone such as the Galaxy S7 or
Huawei Mate 9 review end Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
At 7.9mm thick, the Mate 9 is relatively thin, and even at 78.9mm wide it’s
relatively narrow, but one thing it certainly isn’t is light. It weighs 190g,
There’s no getting over this is a bigger-than-big smartphone. For comparison,
the 5.5in iPhone 7 Plus is 7.3mm thick, 77.9mm wide and weighs 188g, while
Google’s Pixel XL is 8.5mm thick, 75.7mm wide and 168g.
The 5.9in screen is surprisingly good for a 1080p screen. Most smartphones this
size have higher resolution screens so that they have higher pixel densities -
You can certainly see the difference; the Mate 9’s screen is just not as
pin-sharp as the Pixel XL’s screen for instance. But colour reproduction is
  • Camera: 12MP RGB with OIS + 20MP monochrome rear cameras, 8MP front-facing
  • Connectivity: LTE, dual-sim, Wi-Fi, NFC, USB-C, Bluetooth 4.2 and GPS
The Mate 9 can take two sims at the same time for two numbers and plans
connected to one smartphone, or the second sim slot can be used with a microSD
The Mate 9 can take two sims at the same time for two numbers and plans
connected to one smartphone, or the second sim slot can be used with a microSD
card for adding more storage. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
The Mate 9 has Huawei’s new top of the line processor the Kirin 960 and 4GB of
RAM, which places right up there with the best of the rest of Android devices
It’s snappy, particularly in launching apps, which is down in part to Huawei’s
new system of intelligent resource management that predicts apps you’re likely
My usage is obviously predictable because after about two days it was
noticeably snappier. Particularly when launching relatively complex apps such
as Evernote and games. It actually felt faster than any other Android
smartphone I have used to date, which is an achievement.
Huawei promises that its smart systems will keep it that way over the lifespan
of the smartphone, but it’s not something we’ll be able to tell for a year or
The Mate 9’s battery is equally impressive. Without any power saving modes
active I routinely went over 36 hours between charges, dropping only 3%
overnight with do not disturb enabled. I used it as my primary device with
three hours of app usage and browsing, hundreds of emails and push
notifications, a few photos, 30 minutes of mapping, five hours of music over
Bluetooth headphones and quite a lot of Dan the Man and Out There Ω during my
one hour and 20-minute train commute to and from work.
There are some aggressive power saving modes that promise to stretch the
battery life out further. For most the Huawei Mate 9 will last a good two days
A full charge took just over two hours via the included fast charging USB-C
Call quality was excellent, and so was its signal retention: the Mate 9 got a
strong, usable 4G signal in places most other smartphone struggle to get any
Emotion UI 5 is the most refined and pleasing to use version of Android Huawei
has produced and is a big step forward for the company. Photograph: Samuel
Huawei customises Android on its smartphones with a different look and changes
to the underlying control and app permissions systems, which it calls Emotion
In the past EMUI has been a bit clunky, chintzy and not to my tastes looking a
bit like an Android clone of Apple’s iOS. The new EMUI 5, which is based on
Android 7 Nougat, is a giant leap in the right direction.
It’s much more streamlined. Out the box it doesn’t have an app drawer - every
icon must be on the home screen - but it’s a simple option to enable. The
colour scheme across the whole interface has been cooled to a much more
The strange notification panes and other changes that made EMUI worse than most
other Android versions have been removed. A series of quick settings are now
accessible from the notification shade and even the overview of recently used
EMUI 5 still has the tight control over app power consumption, and the
reminders that guide users through the identification and killing of apps that
are using more than their fair share of power when the screen is off. Some may
not like them, but they are useful when used properly at prolonging battery
Some of Huawei’s apps are actually better than standard Android’s counterparts
too. The voice recorder app, which is able to use the range of microphones
positioned about the phone to identify where a person is speaking from an
isolate their audio, is particularly good for recording roundtable meetings.
The app twin feature is also worth using - it allows you to have two instances
of apps that only allow one login, such as WhatsApp, Facebook and others. It
essentially duplicates the app so you can hot swap between them.
The fingerprint scanner on the back of the Mate 9 is the best in the business,
unlocking so fast you blink and you miss it. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the
Huawei’s fingerprint scanners are the best in the business for accuracy and
speed. The one of the back of the Mate 9 is no exception. Despite being quite
small compared to rivals, it worked with a near 100% accuracy. The only time it
didn’t recognise my finger instantly was when I was cooking and it was a bit
The monochrome mode using the dedicated black and white 20-megapixel camera is
great fun to use. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
The Mate 9 has the second generation of Huawei’s dual camera, which like the P9
is branded as co-engineered with camera maker Leica.
There is one 12-megapixel colour camera with optical image stabilisation and
one 20-megapixel monochrome sensor, which is used to collect more light
information for the colour camera to improve the amount of detail captured in
That’s the theory, in practice the whole experience is pretty transparent. If
you didn’t know there were two cameras on the back you wouldn’t notice.
Low-light performance is good, but not quite up to the same quality as
Samsung’s Galaxy S7 Edge or the Pixel XL. It’s relatively easy to get good
shots in average lighting conditions, and you can produce some detail-rich,
There are various camera modes to choose from, including an easy to use “Pro”
or manual mode and some software-based refocusing tricks. But it is the
monochrome mode, which just uses the monochrome camera on the back that’s the
most fun, capturing sharp, black and white photos better than any colour camera
The 8-megapixel selfie camera is good - most will like its balance of detail
and soft focus for more flattering pictures. It struggled a bit in low-light
  • There’s a super simple mode should you want to use it without the
  • There are lots and lots of customisation options should you want to change
    the order of the navigation buttons, enable gesture support, themes, the
    size of items on the screen, the colour temperature etc
  • A blue light filter is there for saving your eyes at night and helping you
  • Various utilities such as a floating dock, a shifting keyboard and a
    mini-screen view are available to help make using the Mate 9 one handed a
The Mate 9 costs €699 (£595) and is expected to be available by the end of
November in a range of five colours in some markets.
For comparison, Apple’s iPhone 7 Plus and Google’s Pixel XL both cost £719 with
32GB of storage, Samsung’s Galaxy S7 Edge costs around £520, the Huawei P9 Plus
The Huawei Mate 9 is a very large smartphone that does a great job of not
feeling so in use. The curved back, minimal body to screen ratio and solid
build mean it’s easier to hold onto than you might expect.
But with that 5.9in screen, it’s still a massive phone whichever way you look
After the demise of Samsung’s top-end Note 7 phablet, the Mate 9 is ready to
fill the void, as long as a stylus isn’t crucial. So if you want a phone with
the big screen, snappy performance and great battery life, a good camera,
excellent fingerprint scanner, expandable memory and dual-sim support you can’t
    Pros: expandable storage, dual-sim, great battery life, excellent
    fingerprint scanner, good camera, massive screen
The Mate 9 comes with a screen protector pre-installed, but like any other
screen protector, it feels nicer to use without one stuck to the screen.
  • Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge review: this is the smartphone to beat
  • Huawei P9 Plus review: high-class phablet held back by sub-par software
  • Google Pixel XL review: very good phablet but with price tag to match
  • iPhone 7 Plus review: 2014 called – it wants its phablet back
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
