  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Honor 8 review: Huawei’s cheaper smartphone is just short of brilliant
With dual cameras, dual Sim, microSD card slot, premium build and two-day
battery life, the only thing holding back the Honor 8 is Huawei’s software
[ ] The Honor 8 is a cracking smartphone held back only slightly by less than
stellar software. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
Honor 8 review: Huawei’s cheaper smartphone is just short of brilliant
With dual cameras, dual Sim, microSD card slot, premium build and two-day
battery life, the only thing holding back the Honor 8 is Huawei’s software
Thursday 15 September 2016 08.00 BST Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
The Honor 8 is the latest smartphone from Huawei’s cheaper sub-brand. It’s no
longer as cut price as the range used to be, but Huawei has squeezed most of
what was good about its flagship P9 smartphone into something that costs almost
20% less. So do you really need to spend more than £400 for a great phone any
The glass back and its varying light reflections making interesting patterns.
The Honor 8 bucks the brand’s trend for metal-bodied phones with a glass front
and back and metal around the sides. It’s a simple, attractive design, which
The curved metal sides are easy to keep a grip of, thanks to narrow screen
bezels, while the back has an attractive layering pattern that reflects light
at different angles. The blue version is particularly pretty in sunlight.
Shame, then, that you’ll probably want to put it in a protective case to
At 7.5mm thick, the Honor 8 is a slim phone stacking up well compared to
similarly-priced competition, including the 7.9mm thick LG Nexus 5X and the
7.4mm thick OnePlus 3. It’s also of a similar weight but doesn’t have any
elements protruding from the back - a rarity for thin smartphones in the last
The 5.2in screen is good but not spectacular, with highly saturated colours,
  • Operating system: Android 6.0 with Emotion UI 4.1
  • Camera: 12MP dual rear camera, 8MP front-facing camera
  • Connectivity: LTE, Wi-Fiac, NFC, IR, Bluetooth 4.2, USB-C and GPS
Honor 8, powered by Huawei. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
The Honor 8 uses Huawei’s octo-core Kirin 950 and has 4GB of RAM, making it a
highly capable smartphone, particularly at under £400.
Performance can only be described as snappy, with little in the way of lag
visible anywhere, despite Huawei’s heavy modifications to Android – more on
that later. The Honor 8 will be able to handle pretty much anything anyone will
likely try and do with it, from gaming to photo editing, without much issue.
I also found it held on to a 4G signal better than most other smartphones in
weaker network areas, although at the same time it was worse affected by the
congested network conditions of London commuter trains, causing a greater
battery drain than some other similar smartphones going through the same areas.
The phone supports dual-Sims too, but one of the Sim trays can take a microSD
card instead, so you either increase the storage capacity or add another phone
Overall, battery life was very good, however. I could easily stretch out the
battery to two days with little effort. Activating the battery saving modes
added further capacity. During a normal work day, with hundreds of push
notifications, three hours of wireless music listening, three hours of browsing
and using apps, a quick game and the odd photo, I would make it home on the
It looks more or less like a standard Android on first look, but look further
and its software feels like an imitation of Apple’s iOS. Photograph: Samuel
The Honor 8 runs Huawei’s version of Android 6 Marshmallow called Emotion UI
(EMUI) 4.1. While the underlying apps experience is essentially the same as
standard Android you might find on other smartphones from other manufacturers
such as HTC, Huawei heavily customises the look and feel.
There is no app drawer, which means all the apps are placed on the homescreen
like Apple’s iOS. The notification shade has been changed to a two-panel layout
with a timeline-style listing of events, while the overview of recently used
apps is flat, sliding carousel of app images, rather than a vertical stack of
Along with the visual changes, EMUI has much more aggressive power-saving
features, that shuts down problem apps and severely limits what can be active
Some of the changes are good, others are a matter of taste, while some make
  • See the review of the Huawei P9 for a more on EMUI 4.1
The fingerprint scanner on the back doubles as a button Photograph: Samuel
Huawei continues its use of very fast, very accurate fingerprint sensors on the
back, which are some of the best in the business and are able to unlock the
The fingerprint scanner doubles as a button, which can be customised to do just
about anything with a short-, double- and long-press, including launching the
Two cameras on the back are better than one, according to Huawei. Photograph:
The Honor 8 has the same twin 12-megapixel camera set up as the P9 and
performance is similar. One camera is colour and the other monochrome, which is
used to boost the amount of light information captured, making for better
It lacks the Leica branding of the P9 and does not have a pure monochrome
shooting mode, but the colour reproduction, detail in images and low-light
Overall it’s capable of producing some good but not spectacular images, and has
solid low-light performance, although I found it occasionally struggled to
The 8-megapixel selfie camera produces good snaps that are a bit soft in detail
than I would like. Most will probably find the images flattering.
The Honor 8 has USB C, a headphone jack, microSD card slot and dual-Sim
support. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
  • The back is so slippery on surfaces that it won’t stay still on anything
  • The power-saving modes can be quite aggressive on disabling apps in the
    background by default, leading to a couple of situations where
    notifications didn’t arrive when I was expecting them to until I
  • Charging is a lot faster with the power plug included than any other USB-C
The Huawei Honor 8 costs £370 in black, white and blue.
For comparison, the Huawei P9 costs £449 with 32GB of storage (same as the
Honor), Samsung’s Galaxy S7 costs £569, the Google Nexus 5X costs £339, the
The Honor 8 is an excellent smartphone that balances a premium look, feel and
performance with a mid-range price, which should make you question why should
you pay over the odds for a top-end phone. Battery life is good, the dual
camera setup produces decent shots, the fingerprint scanner is excellent and
with 32GB of storage and a microSD card slot, there’s plenty of space for apps,
The biggest problem with the Honor 8, however, is the software. Huawei’s EMUI
is getting better, slowly, but it’s an old version of Android 6 Marshmallow
now, and while some may like the look and feel of it, I’m not a big fan.
It’s generally less intuitive and more fiddly than the standard Android
interface, but does have some powerful power control features. For two-thirds
of the price of most top-end smartphones, the Honor 8 is great value and
doesn’t feel like a budget phone. It’s just not quite brilliant.
    Pros: good battery life, snappy, feels and looks nice, excellent
    fingerprint scanner, good camera, dual sim, headphone jack, microSD card
    Cons: back is very slippery, software isn’t as good as the hardware
  • Google Nexus 5X review: the people’s Android phone?
  • Huawei Honor 7 review: solid mid-range with lightning-fast fingerprint
  • OnePlus 3 review: flagship phone at mid-range price
  • Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge review: this is the smartphone to beat
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
