  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
iPhone 7 Plus review: 2014 called – it wants its phablet back
Apple’s newest smartphone is its biggest and most expensive ever. But with this
many compromises, is it worth buying over its sleeker, cheaper rivals?
[ ] The iPhone 7 Plus is Apple’s large phablet with a not-so-large screen, but
has all-day battery life and two cameras on the back. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs
iPhone 7 Plus review: 2014 called – it wants its phablet back
Apple’s newest smartphone is its biggest and most expensive ever. But with this
many compromises, is it worth buying over its sleeker, cheaper rivals?
Monday 3 October 2016 07.00 BST Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
The second of Apple’s newest smartphones, the iPhone 7 Plus, is bigger, more
expensive, has a few more features and actually lasts a day per charge. But is
The largest in Apple’s smartphone range has always felt like it played second
fiddle to the darling of the Apple’s eye, the regular iPhone. Two years since
the launch of the iPhone 6 Plus, however, the iPhone 7 Plus has a new dual
camera, longer battery life and more power, which make it feel like Apple’s
The back of the iPhone 7 Plus is plain with plastic edges now that the antenna
bands skirt its edges. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
Like with the iPhone 7, one place where Apple hasn’t made a lot of changes is
to the design. Side-by-side with either the iPhone 6 Plus or iPhone 6S Plus,
you’d be hard pressed to tell them apart. There’s no headphone socket in the
bottom, of course, and the antenna lines are a little less obvious, at least on
the black version, but there’s still an ugly camera lump on the back, and that
is even larger now. The back also looks a bit plainer and somehow cheaper with
the top and bottom plastic edges created by the antenna bands.
The industrial design of the smartphone is now two years old, and it shows. The
5.5in 1080p screen is arguably the best LCD ever fitted to an iPhone - crisp,
bright and colourful - but it has the same large bezels either side that the
In two years things have moved on. The iPhone 7 Plus is now a very large device
despite the screen being one of the smallest for a phablet. Compared to rivals
with the same 5.5in screen the iPhone 7 Plus is 77.9mm wide, which is 3.2mm
wider than the OnePlus 3 and 5.3mm wider than the Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge. The
Samsung Galaxy Note 7, which has a larger 5.7in screen, is still 4mm narrower
Why does width matter? The wider the device the harder it is to hold with one
hand. No matter how much you might consider a phablet a two-hand device, at
some point you will have to use it with one hand and that’s when people tend to
drop their smartphones. At 77.9mm wide, with smooth rounded sides that feel
nice but are slippery to try and grip, the iPhone 7 Plus is simply too wide for
me to manage with a – not abnormal – hand span of 23cm.
That was the case for almost all phablets two years ago, but in 2016 you can
have both a 5.5in or larger screen and make it manageable with one hand. I’ve
lost count the number of times I’ve almost dropped the iPhone 6 Plus, iPhone 6S
Plus and now the iPhone 7 Plus, when the same can’t be said of its modern
The sim tray now has a small rubber gasket, which is one of only a few visible
signs that the iPhone 7 Plus is waterproof. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the
The iPhone 7 Plus, like its smaller sibling, is now waterproof to IP67
standards: 1m deep in fresh water for up to 30 minutes. It means that while
going swimming with the iPhone 7 isn’t recommended, it will survive a drop into
  • How waterproof are the iPhone 7, Samsung Galaxy S7 and smartwatches?
It also has stereo speakers, which are louder than last year’s but do not
provide good stereo separation. The bottom speaker is just as easy to block
  • Camera: Dual 12MP rear cameras, 7MP front-facing camera
  • Connectivity: LTE, Wi-Fiac, NFC, IR, Bluetooth 4.2, Lightning and GPS
The bottom of the phone only has a single Lightning socket. Photograph: Samuel
The iPhone 7 Plus has Apple’s new A10 Fusion processor, which, like most
processors used in Android smartphones, has four processing cores split into
two pairs. One is a high-performance pair of cores the other is a pair of
  • For more on the A10 Fusion see the iPhone 7 review
The iPhone 7 Plus feels as snappy as the iPhone 7. It has more RAM, but the
difference isn’t noticeable. It feels a little bit faster than the iPhone 6S
Plus in day-to-day activities, and significantly faster with some tasks such as
Using it as my primary device with three hours of app usage and browsing,
hundreds of emails and push notifications, a couple of photos, five hours of
music over Bluetooth headphones and the odd game of Jetpack Joyride during my
one hour and 20-minute train commute to and from work, it lasted an average of
just under 27 hours between charges, meaning it made it to around 10.30am the
next day. It dropped about 5% in eight hours overnight with do not disturb mode
That kind of battery life means that you can be confident it will get you home
after a night out. You will have to charge it each night, but unless you’re
shooting 4K videos all the time, not during the day.
Which is a good thing, because fully charging the iPhone 7 Plus takes ages.
It’s one of the slowest charging smartphones available. From zero to 100% takes
over three hours 20 minutes, when most of the competition gets it done in close
to an hour. Charging overnight is recommended as topping up in the day takes a
significant amount of time connected to the charger.
Widgets are now core to the iOS experience. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the
The iPhone 7 Plus runs the same version of iOS 10 as the iPhone 7 and last
year’s iPhone 6S models. Improvements on iOS 9 include rich notifications,
  • For more on iOS 10 please read the iPhone 7 review
Like the iPhone 6 Plus and 6S Plus before it, Apple modifies a few things
within iOS 10 for the iPhone 7 Plus. The icons on the home screen, the
notification shade and the Control Centre rotate with the screen, making it
easier to use in landscape. Productivity apps such as Mail and Calendar also
have split-screen views for landscape, and while some are useful, others feel
The home button is no longer a button, just a pressure sensitive pad.
The Touch ID fingerprint scanner under the home button is the same as that
fitted to the iPhone 6S Plus and iPhone 7. It is fast and accurate, although
not quite the best in the industry. The home button is no longer a physical
It’s been replaced by a pressure sensitive pad. Pushing it activates the taptic
engine, giving a little vibration that feels like the whole bottom half of the
phone depresses like a big mouse button. Some will love it, some will hate it;
The taptic engine is one of the best features of the iPhone. With short sharp
clicks, taps and vibrations for notifications and general feedback, it is
genuinely the best thing Apple has created in years.
The dual camera sticks out of the back with what look like robot’s eyes in
certain lighting conditions. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
Apple has jumped on the dual-camera bandwagon, following LG and Huawei. Apple’s
approach is similar to LG’s: one camera has a standard wide-angle f/1.8 lens
the same as fitted to the iPhone 7, the other has a slower f/2.8 lens with an
effective two-times magnification compared to the standard lens.
It gives the iPhone a 2x optical zoom and up to 10x digital zoom, which is a
mixed bag. Images captured with the standard camera, which has optical image
stabilisation, are crisp, detailed and colourful, even in low-light conditions.
They are the same as those captured by the iPhone 7 and are a big step up in
quality and performance in my testing compared to the iPhone 6S Plus. For
comparison, the Samsung Galaxy S7, S7 Edge and Note 7 have cameras with f/1.7
The secondary camera on the back magnifies the image by two times. Photograph:
The other 2x camera, however, doesn’t perform nearly as well. In good outdoor
lighting you can get some great shots. Poor outdoor lighting they’re not quite
as good as the standard camera, but still decent. The problem comes when you’re
shooting in average indoor lighting conditions, where the 2x camera falls down.
It doesn’t have optical image stabilisation and isn’t anywhere near as good at
letting light in, meaning images are often grainy and lacking in detail.
To the user, however, the two cameras are essentially one. The iPhone 7 Plus’s
software blends the two images together from the two cameras, so you can slide
your finger and zoom in fluid increments all the way to 10x magnification. It’s
a shame, then, that Apple hasn’t chosen to offer a light information boosting
system like Huawei’s on the P9 Plus, which uses the other camera to increase
the amount of light information available, and therefore the detail and
brightness of images taken in poor lighting conditions.
The 2x magnification proved more useful than I was expecting, but the digital
zoom is still not worth using, particularly at its extremes – it’s simply
artificially spreading the pixels out without adding new information, and the
The 7-megapixel selfie camera is one of the best in the business, creating
detail rich and colour accurate photos even under difficult artificial
No headphone port means it’s Lightning, Bluetooth or bust. A set of Lightning
EarPods and a Lightning to 3.5mm headphone socket adapter are included in the
There is no headphone socket and that’s not exactly great. How much that
bothers you will depend on how much you listen to music on your smartphone.
A set of Lightning EarPods are included in the box, which are terrible and
can’t be plugged into anything else other than an iPhone or iPad. A £9 3.5mm
Lightning adapter is also included, but I’ve already lost one in the two weeks
The biggest problem is that you can’t charge your phone and listen to music at
the same time without some sort of ungainly adapter. Bluetooth headphones are
an option worth exploring, but they are another thing to charge and another
The bezels around the sides of the screen are very large compared to the
competition. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
  • The home button needs skin contact to work, rendering sport armbands and
  • You can’t unlock the phone without first activating the Home button
  • The slippery body and large size meant I frequently dropped the phone onto
    my face when lying on the sofa or reading in bed
  • Matt and shiny black are the two best colours, hiding the antenna bands
  • It’s worth putting the phone in a case to add a bit of grip, but then it
  • The camera lump on the back looks a little like a small robot’s eyes
The iPhone 7 Plus costs £719 for 32GB, £819 for 128GB or £919 for 256GB in rose
For comparison, the 5.5in Galaxy S7 Edge costs £639, the 5.7in Google Nexus 6P
costs £449, the 5.5in OnePlus 3 costs £329 and last year’s iPhone 6S Plus cost
£619 but now £599 (128GB is £699). Samsung’s Galaxy Note 7, which has suffered
issues with its battery, costs £700 with 64GB of storage and a microSD card
slot, which makes the iPhone 7 Plus more expensive than any of its top-end
The iPhone 7 Plus will tick a lot of boxes for many iPhone buyers. It lasts a
day per charge, it has dual cameras on the back, it has a larger screen and has
most of the good things about the iPhone 7 including IP67 waterproofing. But
it’s not a great phablet compared to the competition.
A two-year old design in a space that has had rampant innovation in device
form, if not features, means phones with 5.5in displays no longer have to be
The perfect iPhone would have the battery life and camera of the 7 Plus in the
body of the iPhone 7, but that’s not what’s on offer. It’s a compromise that
    Pros: a day’s battery life, good dual camera and selfie camera, waterproof,
    Cons: bulky, difficult to hold with one hand, no headphone socket, cannot
    unlock the phone with gloves or within an armband case, expensive, no
    removable battery, no memory expansion, can’t charge and listen to cabled
The homescreen rotates on the iPhone 7 Plus. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the
  • Samsung Galaxy Note 7 review: the king of the phablets returns, eventually
  • Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge review: this is the smartphone to beat
  • Google Nexus 6P review: the best phablet available
  • OnePlus 3 review: flagship phone at mid-range price
  • Huawei P9 Plus review: high-class phablet held back by sub-par software
  • LG G5 review: a power user’s friend that just misses the mark
  • iPhone 7 review: how good can a phone be if the battery doesn’t last even a
  • iPhone 6S Plus review: barely better than the iPhone 6 Plus
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
