  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
The Guardian - Back to home browse all sections close
Mark Zuckerberg's letter annotated: what he said and what he didn't
Alex Hern analyses the Facebook founder’s 5,700-word mission statement on the
goals of Facebook and highlights what he really meant and what he left out
Friday 17 February 2017 14.28 GMT Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
Friday 17 February 2017 14.28 GMT Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
    On our journey to connect the world, we often discuss products we’re
    building and updates on our business. Today I want to focus on the most
    important question of all: are we building the world we all want?
Mark Zuckerberg opens his missive with a grammatical ambiguity: who are “we”?
Is this a letter to Facebook, or to the world? It can be read both ways. But
regardless of the intended audience, there’s a subtext to the opening paragraph
which informs the whole 5,700-word letter: for an increasing number of people,
the answer to Zuckerberg’s question is “no”. Zuckerberg wants for more than
Facebook to be an insanely profitable mega-corporation. He wants the company to
be seen as a force for good in the world, and right now, he’s concerned that it
    History is the story of how we’ve learned to come together in ever greater
This is the Facebook theory of history, and it’s a long way from “the history
of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles”. But it
sets the scale of Zuckerberg’s thinking: he genuinely views Facebook as a new
paradigm for the organisation of human civilisation.
    I am reminded of my favorite saying about technology: “We always
    overestimate what we can do in two years, and we underestimate what we can
Strangely, Zuckerberg declined to cite the author of this “saying”: Microsoft
founder Bill Gates, who wrote those words in his 1996 book, the Road Ahead.
Perhaps he wants to avoid comparisons between the two men, who are increasingly
    In times like these, the most important thing we at Facebook can do is
    develop the social infrastructure to give people the power to build a
    Our job at Facebook is to help people make the greatest positive impact
    while mitigating areas where technology and social media can contribute to
This is the new mission statement for Facebook. It’s more nuanced than “connect
the world”, and shows much greater self-awareness than “move fast and break
things”. But is it too self-apologetic? It’s hard to imagine anyone at Facebook
    Building a global community that works for everyone starts with the
    millions of smaller communities and intimate social structures we turn to
    for our personal, emotional and spiritual needs.
Zuckerberg identifies “five important questions” for Facebook to answer; the
    We recently found that more than 100 million people on Facebook are members
    of what we call “very meaningful” groups. These are groups that upon
    joining, quickly become the most important part of our social network
    experience and an important part of our physical support structure …
    Going forward, we will measure Facebook’s progress with groups based on
The first of the odd switches in tone, as Zuckerberg shifts from huge
statements for how to change Facebook’s impact on the world to an announcement
of a different internal metric. Those “very meaningful” groups certainly sound
like a smart thing for Facebook to focus on, but it’s not immediately clear how
much Facebook can influence their creation: how many of these groups are
created by Facebook, rather than just being groups which would have existed
since time immemorial, now being organised on Facebook?
    We plan to build more tools to empower community leaders to run and grow
    their groups the way they’d like, similar to what we’ve done with Pages …
    We plan to expand groups to support sub-communities …
    We can design these experiences not for passive consumption but for
The odd shift in focus continues. A significant chunk of the letter is spent
discussing fairly niche product refreshes. It might be important for Facebook’s
long-term strategy, but it feels disconnected from the earlier lofty rhetoric.
    To help during a crisis, we’ve built infrastructure like Safety Check so we
    can all let our friends know we’re safe and check on friends who might be
    affected by an attack or natural disaster. Safety Check has been activated
    almost 500 times in two years and has already notified people that their
    families and friends are safe more than a billion times
The letter shifts to something in the vein of a pre-emptive apology, basically
here to remind you that Facebook is good. But Safety Check hasn’t been the PR
slam-dunk it might seem it was. Initially, the product opened Facebook up to
accusations of racism, since it had to be manually activated by Facebook staff,
leading to a perception that attacks on developed nations received priority
treatment. Then, when it was automated, it helped spread false reports of an
    Looking ahead, one of our greatest opportunities to keep people safe is
    building artificial intelligence to understand more quickly and accurately
    There are billions of posts, comments and messages across our services each
    day, and since it’s impossible to review all of them, we review content
    once it is reported to us. There have been terribly tragic events -- like
    suicides, some live streamed -- that perhaps could have been prevented if
    someone had realized what was happening and reported them sooner. There are
    cases of bullying and harassment every day, that our team must be alerted
    to before we can help out. These stories show we must find a way to do
    Artificial intelligence can help provide a better approach. We are
    researching systems that can look at photos and videos to flag content our
    team should review. This is still very early in development, but we have
    started to have it look at some content, and it already generates about
    one-third of all reports to the team that reviews content for our
    It will take many years to fully develop these systems. Right now, we’re
    starting to explore ways to use AI to tell the difference between news
    stories about terrorism and actual terrorist propaganda.
Here we have the first mention of artificial intelligence as the future
solution for a myriad of problems. It is a recurring theme throughout the
letter: a difficult problem gets punted to the AI team to be solved at some
point that even Zuckerberg acknowledges may be far off. Some of these problems
will be successfully tackled by improved AI, but others won’t. The propaganda
problem, for instance, seems extraordinarily hard. Does the prospect of future
solutions mean Facebook can get away with not acting in the meantime?
    The two most discussed concerns this past year were about diversity of
    viewpoints we see (filter bubbles) and accuracy of information (fake news).
    I worry about these and we have studied them extensively, but I also worry
    there are even more powerful effects we must mitigate around sensationalism
    and polarization leading to a loss of common understanding.
Almost exactly in the middle of the letter, surrounded by explanations of all
the good things Facebook does, we get on to the section which is why this
letter exists in the first place. Facebook’s effect on the generation of fake
news and filter bubbles has sparked consternation worldwide, with the site
being directly blamed for “radicalisation” of the far right in multiple
nations. It has concerned Facebook executives at the highest levels, including
Zuckerberg. But the question is, do they accept the accusations? And what are
    Social media already provides more diverse viewpoints than traditional
    media ever has. Even if most of our friends are like us, we all know people
    with different interests, beliefs and backgrounds who expose us to
    different perspectives. Compared with getting our news from the same two or
    three TV networks or reading the same newspapers with their consistent
    editorial views, our networks on Facebook show us more diverse content.
This is a bold claim, and one many media experts would dispute. Facebook is
good at giving multiple sources, but is it really good at giving “different
perspectives”? Experiments designed to reflect political polarisation suggest
maybe not: the newsfeed algorithm acts to concentrate viewpoints like little
before. Even if you do have friends and family members with different interests
and backgrounds, Facebook will hide those differences from you in order to give
    But our goal must be to help people see a more complete picture, not just
    alternate perspectives. We must be careful how we do this. Research shows
    that some of the most obvious ideas, like showing people an article from
    the opposite perspective, actually deepen polarization by framing other
    perspectives as foreign. A more effective approach is to show a range of
    perspectives, let people see where their views are on a spectrum and come
    to a conclusion on what they think is right. Over time, our community will
    identify which sources provide a complete range of perspectives so that
Even if Facebook doesn’t actually show different perspectives, Zuckerberg is
arguing, that may not be a problem. Maybe those different perspectives could
lead to more polarisation, not less? It feels a bit like the classic lawyer’s
argument: the discourse isn’t broken, and if it is, my client didn’t do it, and
    Accuracy of information is very important. We know there is misinformation
    and even outright hoax content on Facebook, and we take this very seriously
    Our approach will focus less on banning misinformation, and more on
    surfacing additional perspectives and information, including that fact
The other side of the polarisation problem: “fake news”. Facebook is in a
tricky position, and Zuckerberg knows it The firm can’t deny that it’s a
problem that Macedonian teens can make up stories for an audience of millions,
mediated almost exclusively by Facebook. But the term “fake news” is so
contested that any solution will inevitably fall far short of satisfying
    We noticed some people share stories based on sensational headlines without
    ever reading the story. In general, if you become less likely to share a
    story after reading it, that’s a good sign the headline was sensational.
Facebook’s News Feed tweaks can seem small, but their changes reverberate
throughout the media world with enormous effects, bankrupting some outlets
while heaping windfalls on others. This particular tweak seems smart.
    A strong news industry is also critical to building an informed community.
    Giving people a voice is not enough without having people dedicated to
    uncovering new information and analyzing it. There is more we must do to
    support the news industry to make sure this vital social function is
    sustainable -- from growing local news, to developing formats best suited
    to mobile devices, to improving the range of business models news
This feels like a nice sleight-of-hand. Unlike much of the rest of the letter,
which follows pattern of acknowledging a problem before presenting a
(potential) solution, this is just the problem: Zuckerberg doesn’t really have
    The vast majority of conversations on Facebook are social, not ideological.
    They’re friends sharing jokes and families staying in touch across cities.
    They’re people finding groups, whether they’re new parents raising kids or
    newly diagnosed patients suffering from a disease together. Sometimes it’s
    for joy, coming together around religion or sports. And sometimes it’s for
    survival, like refugees communicating to find shelter.
In other words, worrying about the corrosive effect of Facebook on political
discourse is for the metropolitan liberal elite. Most of what Facebook is used
for doesn’t as adverse effects, so just cheer up and click “like” on a baby
    Our society will reflect our collective values only if we engage in the
    civic process and participate in self-governance. There are two distinct
    types of social infrastructure that must be built:
    The first encourages engagement in existing political processes: voting,
    engaging with issues and representatives, speaking out, and sometimes
    organizing. Only through dramatically greater engagement can we ensure
    The second is establishing a new process for citizens worldwide to
    participate in collective decision-making. Our world is more connected than
    ever, and we face global problems that span national boundaries. As the
    largest global community, Facebook can explore examples of how community
This is how Facebook wants to be thought of when it comes to politics Rather
than a passive funnel through which distorted news arrives at people’s screens,
it wants to be an active location for political engagement.
    First, our community is evolving from its origin connecting us with family
    and friends to now becoming a source of news and public discourse as well …
    Second, our community spans many countries and cultures, and the norms are
    Third, even within a given culture, we have different opinions on what we
    Fourth, we’re operating at such a large scale that even a small percent of
    errors causes a large number of bad experiences.
Zuckerberg has identified the problems faced by Facebook’s censorship regime.
For some, there’s an easy solution, such as tweaking the community standards to
allow more boundary-pushing imagery with strong news value. For others, there’s
a more hand-wavy solution: AI again. At some point in the future.
    The approach is to combine creating a large-scale democratic process to
    determine standards with AI to help enforce them …
    With a broader range of controls, content will only be taken down if it is
    more objectionable than the most permissive options allow …
    It’s worth noting that major advances in AI are required to understand
    text, photos and videos to judge whether they contain hate speech, graphic
    violence, sexually explicit content, and more. At our current pace of
    research, we hope to begin handling some of these cases in 2017, but others
Again, Zuckerberg acknowledges these are really hard technological problems and
any easy AI-based solutions are a long way off. Zuckerberg seems to be hoping
concerned users will accept “we’re trying” as an acceptable position for
    I am reminded of President Lincoln’s remarks during the American Civil War:
    “We can succeed only by concert. It is not ‘can any of us imagine better?’
    but, ‘can we all do better?’ The dogmas of the quiet past, are inadequate
    to the stormy present. The occasion is piled high with difficulty, and we
    must rise with the occasion. As our case is new, so we must think anew, act
Zuckerberg’s final section ends with a quote from Abraham Lincoln, which has
renewed speculation that his new interest in addressing political problems is a
lead-in to a presidential campaign in 2024. But the letter as a whole suggests
a more nuanced reading: While the Facebook chief executive is undoubtedly
considering an entry into political life, he is also recognising that running
the world’s largest social network is effectively a political career in itself.
Maybe in Zuckerberg’s vision of history, after tribes and cities and nations,
Friday 17 February 2017 14.28 GMT Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
