  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Marshall Mid Bluetooth headphones review: sound that will rock you
Simple rock-styling, good controls, excellent battery life and great sound,
make these relatively compact on-ear wireless headphones worth a listen
[ ] The new Marshall Mid on-ear Bluetooth headphones sound great and last ages
Marshall Mid Bluetooth headphones review: sound that will rock you
Simple rock-styling, good controls, excellent battery life and great sound,
make these relatively compact on-ear wireless headphones worth a listen
Monday 6 February 2017 07.50 GMT Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
Marshall knocked it out of the park with its last set of Bluetooth headphones,
the Major II Bluetooth, which means the new Mid Bluetooth have big shoes to
From the outside they look simple. Small black on-ear speakers with textured
black plastic covering, white Marshall logo and a textured pleather headband.
The ear cups are connected to the band by a metal bracket and solid-feeling
hinge with a small bungie cable for audio. There are a few small brass accents
on the hinge, arms and Marshall’s multifunction button on the left ear cup.
The right ear cup has a microUSB port for charging and a 3.5mm headphones jack
for hooking the Mids up by cable, should the power run out or you want to share
your audio. They’re not quite as interesting-looking as the Major IIs and are
quite dull compared to the likes of Beats, but the Mids are simple, attractive
and will look good on the heads of rockers and businesspeople alike.
The on-ear fit means they’re quite small, and they fold up into a fairly
compact and robust package for travel. They are also light and the headband is
nicely padded, but I found they were really quite tight on the ears, which made
them uncomfortable for long listening sessions. Most on-ear headphones suffer
from this problem, but these are certainly tighter on the head than the Major
The brass-coloured multifunction button on the ear cup acts like a joystick.
The Bluetooth connection to various smartphones was rock-solid throughout. The
Mids have aptX support, for those smartphones and tablets that support it,
which is great if you have a Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge or HTC 10, but neither
Sadly the Mids do not have NFC for one-touch Bluetooth pairing, but once turned
on just double-pressing the power button puts them into pairing mode. The
multi-function joystick button is excellent. As noted with the Major IIs, it
feels robust and gets everything done with the minimum of fuss.
Press it in to pause or play, up or down to adjust skip or reverse track or
left or right to adjust volume. It can all be done with quick nudges with your
If you’d like to share your music with another, plugging in a headphones cable
into the open jack while listening to Bluetooth audio will pipe the music out
to anything else you might want to connect. It’s a bit awkward to have someone
else connected to your head, but works great when sitting next to your
significant other or friend on a plane, train or bus.
When the battery runs out you can hook them up via cable. Photograph: Samuel
Marshall headphones have a distinct sound that’s particularly at home blasting
out rock music. But the Mids are more balanced than the Major IIs with more
rounded sound that makes pretty much anything sound good.
From the likes of Eric Clapton, the Red Hot Chilli Peppers and the Pixies to
Blue Sky Black Death, Tycho and Com Truise, almost any musical genre sounds
warm and inviting. Some things with high treble can sound a little harsh if
turned up loud: Marshall has tuned the Mids to boost mid-bass and top-end
They struggle a little bit with orchestral music, sounding a little flat and
lacking sparkle within Holst’s Jupiter, for instance, but it’s still passable.
They sound very good for a set of Bluetooth on-ear headphones under £200.
The small LED next to the microUSB port shows you whether the headphones are
on, in pairing mode or low on battery. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the
Battery life, as with the Major IIs, is excellent. The Mids are meant to last
around 30 hours between charges. They got something in the region of 32 hours
between charges, which meant weeks worth of commutes and listening at work.
These are the kinds of headphones you can forget to charge for extended periods
  • They pinch the ears fiercely when new, but gradually got slightly less
  • The Mids block out background noise quite well for on-ear headphones
  • Call quality was OK through them, but the other side of the conversation
The Marshall Mid Bluetooth headphones cost £169, which is £40 more than the
The Marshall Mid Bluetooth headphones are another excellent set of on-ear
wireless headphones from the iconic British brand. They combine great sound
quality, solid connectivity and long battery life with good, simple looks and
Despite being a bit more balanced than the Major IIs, the Mids don’t suit every
music genre, but won’t sound bad with much and those looking for great-sounding
headphones for rock or anything associated will find they excel.
But, like most on-ear headphones they pinched my ears, even slightly more than
some others. They will ease as they wear in a little, but those looking for
hours-long private listening parties might want to look for an over-the-ear
The biggest problem with the Mids is that Marshall already has some excellent
on-ear headphones in the Major IIs, and they’re £40 cheaper.
    Pros: great sound, long battery life, good controls, good connectivity,
    share your music via cable, optional cable listening, simple but not boring
    Cons: pinch a bit, lack a bit of balance for classical music, no NFC for
The Mids fold up into a robust-feeling package for travel. Photograph: Samuel
  • Marshall Major II Bluetooth headphones: they last for ages and sound great
  • Plantronics BackBeat Sense review: light, long-lasting and great sounding
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
