  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
OnePlus 3T review: the top-end smartphone that won't break the bank
The new, improved Android device might not be quite the bargain the OnePlus 3
[ ] The OnePlus 3T is a premium, top-of-the-range phablet for £300 less than
the competition. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
OnePlus 3T review: the top-end smartphone that won't break the bank
The new, improved Android device might not be quite the bargain the OnePlus 3
Monday 5 December 2016 07.00 GMT Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
The OnePlus 3T is a minor update to a very good smartphone which improves on
some key areas, but it isn’t quite the bargain the original was.
The Chinese smartphone firm only released the OnePlus 3 in June, but already it
has been replaced. The 3T is practically identical to its predecessor, a slight
colour difference on the outside the only sign that things have changed.
According to OnePlus co-founder Carl Pei, the company had some improvements
available that would fit more or less in the same package – a larger battery,
faster processor and improved cameras – so rather than wait a year, it simply
But at the same time it has also increased the price of the smartphone, from
its original £309 on launch, through its post Brexit referendum currency
adjustment of £329 to a starting price of £399. Is the new 3T worth £70 more
The gun metal grey colour is slightly darker than the grey of the OnePlus 3.
The smooth aluminium body with a curved back and beveled sides feels every bit
as good six months on with the 3T. It is a very nice smartphone to hold, touch
and appreciate: there’s no doubt the 3T has the look and feel of a smartphone
The 5.5in 1080p AMOLED screen is great. Now you can customise the colour tone
to your liking, although out of the box most people will be very happy with the
more subtle colour mode OnePlus uses compared to other AMOLED-using phones such
With a pixel density of 401 pixels per inch, the 3T isn’t quite as crisp as
top-end Android competitors, which have quad HD resolutions at the same screen
size, and therefore side-by-side with a 534ppi Google Pixel XL it looks
slightly less pin sharp. Most will be happy with it, although it will be
noticeably poorer for virtual reality applications.
The narrow bezels and curved back make it manageable one-handed even with the
5.5in screen. It isn’t quite as narrow as the current king of the large screen
in a tiny bodied phone, the Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge, but it is 1mm narrower than
The alert slider allows you to quickly switch between silent, priority and all
notifications. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
OnePlus’ excellent notification slider completes some well made buttons on the
  • Camera: 16MP rear camera with OIS, 16MP front-facing camera
  • Connectivity: LTE, Dual-Sim, Wi-Fi, NFC, USB-C, Bluetooth 4.2 and GPS
Dash Charge through USB-C for a rapid fill up. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the
The OnePlus 3T has the same amount of memory and storage as its predecessor,
but has a slightly more powerful processor: the Snapdragon 821 from Qualcomm,
which is used in other high-end Android smartphones including the Pixel XL.
It feels snappy, but not quite the fastest smartphone on the market: the Huawei
Mate 9. It doesn’t feel any faster than the OnePlus 3, but the battery did last
longer between charges. It has a slightly larger battery, and software
refinements over the last six months have made the experience smoother.
Used as my primary device with five hours of listening to music through
Bluetooth earbuds, three hours spent browsing or using apps, occasional gaming
and taking photos, with hundreds of push notifications throughout the day, the
OnePlus 3T lasted around 36 hours between charges.
The big improvement over the 3 has been in standby performance: where the 3
dropped 12-16% overnight, the 3T dropped only 4%, which is very good compared
Charging the battery is fast, too. With OnePlus’ proprietary Dash Charge power
adapter and cable it took just over 70 minutes to reach 100% from zero charge,
which is right up there with the fastest charging smartphones. It can also be
charged using pretty much any USB charger, but at a standard rate.
Two sim slots allow you to have two numbers connected to one phone. Photograph:
The OnePlus 3T also has dual-Sim support, which means two mobile phone
contracts and two numbers can be used at the same time in the same phone. It’s
a common and useful feature in Asia, but rare in the UK, and makes travelling
or juggling a work and personal phone much easier within one device.
The fingerprint scanner on the front, which doubles as a home button, is
OxygenOS 3.5 is a slightly tweaked version of Android 6 Marshmallow with some
of the features of Android 7 Nougat. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
OnePlus customises Android to create OxygenOS. Unlike some other manufacturers
the changes are subtle, more refinements rather than drastic alterations.
If you’re a fan of the standard Android experience, you will appreciate
OxygenOS. It has more customisation options, from the ability to swap the
navigation buttons over, put them on screen or use the capacitive buttons
beside the fingerprint scanner, to extended gesture support and tweaks for the
But the 3T ships with OxygenOS 3.5, which is based on last year’s Android 6.0.1
Marshmallow, not the newest Android 7 Nougat. OnePlus expects to have an update
to Nougat available before the end of the year. So far, it has not had the best
track record for speedy software updates, but has got better over the last few
The camera is good and the camera app easy to use. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for
The 16-megapixel rear camera has some subtle improvements to detail and noise
suppression over the OnePlus 3. Overall it’s a capable camera, shooting
detailed shots in good lighting and solid if not remarkable shots in lowlight.
It’s not quite as good as the best from Samsung or Google, but it’s hard to
The 16-megapixel selfie camera is one of the highest resolution front-facing
cameras available, and although more megapixels does not always equal better
results, the 3T produced some of the most detailed and natural-looking selfies
I’ve ever shot, even in tough lighting conditions such as office fluorescent
The OnePlus 3T is available in either gun metal grey or soft gold with 64GB of
storage for £399 or just in gun metal with 128GB of storage for £439. It’s also
available exclusively with a mobile phone contract with O2 in the UK.
For comparison, the 5.5in Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge costs £520, the Google Pixel
XL costs £719, the Huawei Mate 9 costs €699 (£589) and the Apple iPhone 7 Plus
The OnePlus 3T is an excellent smartphone. The fit and finish is right up there
with the best, the metal design is refined and even with a 5.5in screen, it’s a
It isn’t quite the bargain the OnePlus 3 was, and I don’t think it’s worth £70
more than the previous model. But with currency fluctuations the way they are
and the pound down against the US dollar it’s not all about profit. It is still
excellent value for £400 when Apple and Google’s equivalent smartphones, that
With the backing of O2, OnePlus also now has more legitimacy as a manufacturer
in the UK. And while there’s certainly room for improvement, the company is
You get more than what you pay for with the OnePlus 3T compared to rivals.
    Pros: all-metal, great fingerprint sensor, good screen, fast charging, good
    cameras, excellent notification slider, dual-Sim with dual standby, cheaper
    Cons: not quite as cheap as it once was, no removable battery, no
    expandable storage, slow charging from non-Dash charge power adapters,
The curved back feels great in the hand and produces some interesting
reflections and colours from different light sources. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs
  • OnePlus 3 review: flagship phone at mid-range price
  • Huawei Mate 9 review: big screen, long battery life and dual cameras
  • Google Pixel XL review: very good phablet but with price tag to match
  • Huawei P9 Plus review: high-class phablet held back by sub-par software
  • Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge review: this is the smartphone to beat
  • iPhone 7 Plus review: 2014 called – it wants its phablet back
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
