  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Games reviews roundup: Persona 5; Yooka-Laylee; Virry VR
Teen rebellion is even better fifth time around, while a crowd-funded
platformer revives the 90s and Kenya’s wildlife gets up close and personal
Games reviews roundup: Persona 5; Yooka-Laylee; Virry VR
Teen rebellion is even better fifth time around, while a crowd-funded
platformer revives the 90s and Kenya’s wildlife gets up close and personal
Following the success and acclaim of Persona 4, this new entry in developer
Atlus’s series of turn-based role-playing games has a lot to live up to.
Thankfully, Persona 5 exceeds these high expectations, oozing style and
personality. In both the dynamic, context-specific loading screens and the
intuitive battle menus, every design decision reinforces the narrative theme of
battling the corrupt systems that have robbed the protagonists’ futures,
driving them to become the phantom thieves of hearts. Even dungeon descents are
made to feel like heists, with the protagonists infiltrating the mindscapes of
their abusers to steal their secrets and treasures.
The series’ history of complex and compelling character writing continues, as
each storyline feels comparable to some of the best modern TV drama. Persona 5
offers the opportunity to recapture the feeling of righteous teenage rebellion,
and though it does prove hard – much like being a teenager – it is worth it in
Playtonic’s Kickstarter pitch for Yooka-Laylee was simple: this would be a
modern take on the 3D platformers Rare was famous for in the N64 era. With that
in mind, Yooka-Laylee counts as a success – it does a fine job of recreating
the gameplay of those titles for modern hardware. Effectively it’s
Banjo-Kazooie built on the Unity engine. Playing as Yooka and Laylee, a
chameleon and bat duo who must gather the pages of a magical book, the worlds
to explore are colourful and varied. The controls don’t feel quite as
responsive and tight as modern titles but it features some gloriously hilarious
Irritations include not being able to skip slow text and some of the noises the
characters make. So, while Yooka-Laylee does an admirable job of replicating
Rare’s heyday, it is missing that extra layer of polish and modernisation that
would have made it truly shine. Overall, the pleasure to be had here will
depend really on just how much you enjoyed Banjo-Kazooie back in 1998. AC
‘Interactive wildlife’: Virry VR. Photograph: Fountain Digital
It would perhaps be too much to describe Virry VR as a true game, but it is on
a gaming format and intriguing enough to warrant the attention of gamers. The
first paid-for 360-degree video released for PlayStation VR, it’s probably
better categorised as an interactive wildlife documentary.
Shot in the Kenyan Savannah, Virry VR places its viewers in the heart of the
action, as animals such as hyenas, elephants and rhinos feed and squabble.
Along with a voiceover, there are occasional interactions and occasional quiz
questions, plus an animal-free relaxation mode for those who like the idea of
Where it succeeds is in the presence of the animals. It is nearly always
delightful, as some of Kenya’s most impressive wildlife come up close. The
content, while shot in 4K, is not 3D but remains of superb quality, and while
there are a few too many glitches, for a modest sum Virry VR offers a very
accessible sense of how VR may change documentary-making. WF
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
