  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Plantronics BackBeat Pro 2: Bose-level wireless noise cancelling on a budget
24 hours of battery life, good controls and lots of bass will sound great to
many, but if you’re a fan of classical music, look elsewhere
Plantronics BackBeat Pro 2 active noise cancelling wireless headphones.
[ ] Plantronics BackBeat Pro 2 active noise cancelling wireless headphones –
how do they shape up against the market leaders? Photograph: Plantronics
Plantronics BackBeat Pro 2: Bose-level wireless noise cancelling on a budget
24 hours of battery life, good controls and lots of bass will sound great to
many, but if you’re a fan of classical music, look elsewhere
Wednesday 1 February 2017 08.30 GMT Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
Plantronics promises top-end noise cancelling wireless headphones for a
third-less than market leaders, but do the new BackBeat Pro 2s really deliver?
The new BackBeat Pro 2s only have a passing resemblance to their forbears. Gone
is the round shape in favour of a more ergonomic oval that fits around the ears
They’re also lighter and more comfortable, with pretty good adjustment at the
earcup to accommodate different shapes of head. The one thing they do not do is
fold up, only swivelling so the earcups can lie flat on a table, meaning
they’re quite bulky to carry around in a bag when you’re not using them.
The left earcup has a central pause-play button, flanking track-skip buttons
and a jog wheel for adjusting volume. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
The left earcup has a central pause-play button, flanking track-skip buttons
and a jog wheel for adjusting volume. There’s also a switch on the side that
turns on or off active noise cancelling, or feeds the noises of the outside
world into the headphones using the microphones – useful for listening to
The right earcup has the microUSB charging port, headphones cable socket for
listening wired, a power switch that also initiates Bluetooth pairing a
multi-function button for triggering Google Assistant or Siri and a red
All the buttons and switches feel solid, while the volume jog dial works well.
The headphones can also pause the music when you remove them and start playback
Plantronics BackBeat Pro 2 review - logo Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the
The old BackBeat Pro headphones had a lot of bass, but it was noticeably
reduced when noise cancellation was turned on. The new Pro 2 headphones don’t
suffer the same muting problem caused by active noise cancellation. In fact,
they have pretty full and rounded bass – much more than say the Bose QC35 – but
they don’t sound overly driven by it. The treble and highs aren’t drowned out
and the bass is sharp and punchy rather than muddy.
Those looking for a more balanced or neutral sound will need to look elsewhere,
but they sounded great even at low volumes when fed electronica and anything
with a solid bass track. Rock tracks such as Eric Clapton’s Layla sounded
great, but something like Holst’s Jupiter sounded a bit dulled and hollow
without the sparkle associated with more balanced headphones.
Good at blocking background noise, but not great if there’s a ringing phone
The active noise cancelling is very effective at removing the drone of engine
noise, but is less so against the sudden noise of a phone going off or similar
on a commuter train. The biggest difference between the Pro 2s and
market-leader Bose QC35 is really in their passive noise blocking – you can
hear more of the conversations around you with the Pro 2 on your head.
The Pro 2s are still much more effective than than most other rivals, just not
quite the gold standard set by the more expensive QC35.
More than enough battery to see you through your commute. Photograph: Samuel
Plantronics rates the BackBeat Pro 2s as having 24 hours of battery life, which
is about what I got with my listening. They lasted for weeks of commuting and
listening in the office with noise-cancelling active while attempting to
concentrate on writing. I suspect they’ll last even longer with noise
Charging via a microUSB cable took a relatively long time, somewhere in the
region of three hours from fully flat, but given the 24 hours of battery life,
I think that’s a solid trade off. Topping up with a 30 minute charge was
certainly more than enough to see you through a day’s commute.
The solid but rather bulky hard case. Photograph: Samuel Gibbs for the Guardian
  • The hard case supplied with the more expensive “SE” versions is solid but
  • The supplied analogue cable doesn’t have a microphone or music controls on
  • Bluetooth connectivity was excellent throughout
The Plantronics BackBeat Pro 2 are available in two versions, the Pro 2 in
brown costing £220 and a grey with a hard carry case for £250.
The Plantronics BackBeat Pro 2 wireless noise-cancelling headphones are a very
good pair of headphones, that lasts ages between charges, have good controls,
solid active noise cancelling and a sound profile that will please many.
They’re comfortable to wear for prolonged listening and have some nice touches
such as auto-pause-play when you remove them from your head. But those looking
for balanced sound and the very best in noise blocking should look else where.
If you’re looking for a good value, nice-sounding and effective pair of
wireless noise-cancelling headphones, you won’t go far wrong with BackBeat Pro
    Pros: very long battery life, comfortable, good noise cancelling, good
    Cons: sound profile won’t suit everyone, don’t fold up particularly well
    for travel, passive noise isolation could be better
  • Sony h.ear on Wireless NC headphones review: just shy of really great
  • Bose QC35 wireless headphones: simply unrivalled noise cancelling
  • Philips SHB9850NC headphones review: noise cancelling without breaking the
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
