  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Crazy at the wheel: psychopathic CEOs are rife in Silicon Valley, experts say
Attributes of a psychopath can be good for running a business, says SXSW panel,
but weak HR departments and investors can enable bad behavior
Studies show a high prevalence of psychopaths among high-level executives in a
corporate environment, compared to the general population.
[ ] Studies show a high prevalence of psychopaths among high-level executives
in a corporate environment, compared to the general population. Photograph:
Crazy at the wheel: psychopathic CEOs are rife in Silicon Valley, experts say
Attributes of a psychopath can be good for running a business, says SXSW panel,
but weak HR departments and investors can enable bad behavior
Wednesday 15 March 2017 09.00 GMT Last modified on Wednesday 15 March 2017 
There is a high proportion of psychopathic CEOs in Silicon Valley, enabled by
protective investors and weak human resources departments, according to a panel
Although the term “psychopath” typically has negative connotations, some of the
attributes associated with the disorder can be advantageous in a business
“A true psychopath is someone that has a blend of emotional, interpersonal,
lifestyle and behavioral deficits but an uncanny ability to mask them. They
come across as very charming, very gregarious. But underneath there’s a
profound lack of remorse, callousness and a lack of empathy,” said forensic and
clinical psychologist Michael Woodworth, who has worked with psychopathic
Uber's 'hustle-oriented' culture becomes a black mark on employees' résumés
“They have certain characteristics like fearless dominance, boldness and a lack
of emotion. Many successful presidents have scored highly [on the psychopathy
According to recent studies there’s a high prevalence of psychopathy among
high-level executives in a corporate environment: 4-8% compared with 1% in the
This makes sense, according to Silicon Valley venture capitalist Bryan Stolle
because “it’s an irrational act to start a company”.
“You have to have a tremendous amount of ego [and] self-deception to embark on
that journey,” he said. “You have to make sacrifices and give up things,
including sometimes a marriage, family and friends. And you have to convince
other people. So they are mostly very charismatic, charming and make you
suspend the disbelief that something can’t be done.”
However, the positive attributes are accompanied by manipulation.
“One of the main things that makes them extremely difficult to organisations is
their willingness to manipulate through deception,” said Jeff Hancock, a
Stanford social scientist who studies psychopathy.
“Psychopaths will handpick people they can use as lackeys or supporters, such
as someone in HR they can have in their wheelhouse,” said Woodworth.
    Because they are the founders and leaders they tend to get protected by HR.
However, when a psychopath isn’t getting his or her way, they lose their veneer
of charm. “When things aren’t happening the way they thought they were going to
happen, they tend to completely flip and resort to bullying,” said Stolle.
At that point, according to Hancock, their “mask of sanity falls off”.
“Because they are the founders and leaders they tend to get protected by HR,”
He cited Uber and the allegations of sexual harassment made by former employee
Susan Fowler as an example of a company with an HR department that’s “gone in
It’s not just HR departments that enable psychopaths, but investors.
“When you’ve made an investment in an entrepreneur, you protect them.
Everything is riding on that person. You are tied to them and now you have to
keep ignoring the behaviour unless it gets so terrible you can’t,” said Stolle.
Having a psychopath within a company can lead to poor employee retention, said
Hancock, referencing FBI research that found that departments managed by
psychopaths decreases productivity and morale in the team.
“Eight to 14 people could be lost because of one psychopath. That’s the real
cost of having something like that in your organization, especially if there’s
Startup workers see sexual harassment on 'breathtaking' scale in Silicon Valley
Hancock has developed software that can analyze written language – in emails,
tweets or blog posts – for language cues associated with psychopathy.
“There tends to be an emotion deficit, they tend to use few words related to
anxiety but a lot of hostile language,” he said, adding that they write in a
Psychopaths also find it difficult to modulate their language for different
settings for example a private message versus a public post. Because they are
more interested in themselves than others, they tend to refer to other people a
This means that text-based communication is a much better way to communicate
with someone you suspect is a psychopath, since it strips away their non-verbal
“Text based communications improve your chances of not being manipulated as
they are verbally not very skilled,” said Hancock. “You can smoke them out in
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
