  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Six of the best gadgets for cats: goodbye analogue mog, hello cyber hepcat
Forget clockwork mice. There’s a new range of gadgets for your cat to get its
paws on, including ones to track it, feed it and even scoop up after it
[ ] Toby with the FroliCat Bolt Pet Laser Toy. All photographs by Katherine
Six of the best gadgets for cats: goodbye analogue mog, hello cyber hepcat
Forget clockwork mice. There’s a new range of gadgets for your cat to get its
paws on, including ones to track it, feed it and even scoop up after it
Cats are relatively low-maintenance animals, though that won’t stop us from
finding innovative ways to spend money on them. First they overran the
internet; now they’ve come for the internet of things: the market is littered
with toys, cameras, and camera-toys. Even some of the more basic items – food
bowls, litter trays – apparently need a power supply now. But is this stuff
really useful? Or are companies merely playing on the vulnerabilities of doting
pet owners, such as myself? We tested a few gadgets with the reluctant help of
Getting Toby to “frolic” seems a big ask. “He’s too old for it,” says Katherine
the photographer, as I present to him the FroliCat, a laser-pointer toy that
swivels and rotates atop a skittle-shaped turret. The cat is ideally meant to
chase after the dancing red dot of light as it bounces off the toy’s adjustable
mirror and zigzags around the room. He chose to scowl instead. Embarrassed by
my reticent pet, I persist, and the red dot of light on the wall does
eventually catch Toby’s eye. He very slowly extends a half-hearted paw in
pursuit. Yes, younger cats might appreciate this more, but then they’ll play
The Motorola Scout85: keeps an eye on your pet when you’re away
The Motorola Scout 85: keeps an eye on your pet when you’re away.
This 720p wifi video camera is designed to help you keep an eye on your pet via
its cloud-based app. Its main flaw is the tendency of cats to scuttle out of
frame, beyond the 300-degree panning angle. I position mine in front of Toby’s
favourite sofa cushion. Every few hours, I tuned in from my office desk to
watch my cat snoozing. Or, more often, an empty sofa. My favourite feature was
its two-way audio communication, which allowed me to haunt Toby’s dreams by
saying his name like a ghost. The stream was a bit laggy but it confused him
well enough. I meanwhile had the camera send me the odd notification whenever
there was a conspicuous noise or movement during the day. This is especially
practical if you’re too busy for live surveillance – which you probably ought
Toby gets ready for his close-up with Petcube Play
Toby gets ready for his close-up with Petcube Play.
The 3.1in cube is a more entertaining version of the Motorola. Its “play”
function activates a laser beam on the front of the camera that can be
controlled remotely via smartphone, encouraging your cat to play (or, in Toby’s
case, glare with contempt) while the camera rolls. The sharp resolution and a
bright LED for night vision make for altogether crisper snooping.
To test this unit, I chucked Toby out of my back door in the dead of night,
waited for a bit, then tracked him down again using Tabcat’s homing device. The
gadget communicates via radio frequency with a small tag weaved on to the cat’s
collar, which bleeps hot and cold, depending on your proximity. Fine for
locating dark-coated commando cats in the undergrowth; less so if they roam
PetSafe ScoopFree Original Self-Cleaning Litter Box £134.99
Toby tentatively steps into the self-cleaning litter box
Toby steps tentatively into the self-cleaning litter box.
Self-cleaning? A dubious claim. The Petsafe uses an automatic rake that combs
through the litter and dumps the dumps into a lidded compartment – not really
cleaning anything. The mechanism is no more hygienic than a regular, smaller,
Verdict: Not exactly thinking outside the litter box.
The Surefeed pet feeder makes sure everyone gets their fair share
The SureFeed pet feeder makes sure all pets get their fair share.
The SureFeed Pet Feeder may be the most useful gadget of the bunch for owners
of multiple cats, a dog, or small children partial to a bowl of Whiskas. The
battery-powered dispenser prevents food theft with a lid that’s triggered open
by sensors which memorise your cat’s microchip. There’s something satisfying
about the way the automatic door slides ajar in a smooth motion as the cat
approaches, like a background prop aboard the Starship Enterprise. A
decent-sized bowlful is revealed, which would last Toby about a day.
Verdict: All your cats will live long and prosper.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
