  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Top hairdryers reviewed: is the £300 Dyson Supersonic really the king?
Is the Dyson’s Supersonic really worth at least twice as much as its top-end
[ ] Top-end blowers put to the test to see which is hot stuff and which runs
out of puff. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the Guardian
Top hairdryers reviewed: is the £300 Dyson Supersonic really the king?
Is the Dyson’s Supersonic really worth at least twice as much as its top-end
Tuesday 20 December 2016 07.00 GMT Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
Can a hairdryer really be worth £300? That’s the price of Dyson’s Supersonic.
It’s the most expensive consumer option on the market, and by more than a
hair’s breadth. We wanted to know if the extra money is worth it, so tested it
Our team of testers – with various different hair types, from dense, tight
curls of afro-textured hair to pencil-straight east-Asian hair (type makes a
big difference when it comes choosing a good dryer) – put the top brands
through their paces, judging how fast they worked, how heavy they felt and most
Has the Dyson done for hairdryers what it did for vacuums, or was it blown away
Babyliss 3Q. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the Guardian
The Babyliss 3Q promises a lot on the box: faster drying, lighter weight,
While some of the claims seem a little far-fetched – given it was the loudest
in the test, one of the heaviest and one of the most difficult to handle
because of its long snout – it got good results for most.
One tester with straight hair said: “It actually did what it said on the box”.
Another tester said it left hair soft, shiny and with volume at the roots,
It only comes with one nozzle, no diffuser and wasn’t anything special for
thick curls, leaving them ill-defined and frizzy. And it won’t be much good for
those wishing to pack it up and take it to the gym, and cleaning collected
fluff out of the back will be a bit of a faff. But if shine and volume past the
first couple of hours is what you’re after, the Babyliss delivered for most.
Verdict: best for straight shine, but difficult to handle
Parlux Advance. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the Guardian
Hand weight: 420g (380g quoted) - lightest in the test
The Parlux Advance ceramic ionic dryer is powerful and compact. It’s the
lightest in the bunch and doesn’t sacrifice power despite being the second
Our testers found it had good temperature control, was easy to handle with a
short snout, long cord and ergonomic handle, and dried hair fast. The switches
felt solid, if a little old-school compared to some others. The grill at the
It was neither the quietest or nor the loudest in our test – still loud enough
to block out dialogue from a TV in the room like all the rest.
Lack of a diffuser in the box holds it back for curly hair (it’s a £10 extra),
while some straight hair testers found it caused their locks to be a bit dry
and coarse, but others said it made their hair shiny and soft with no need for
Its compact form and sturdy build made it a good candidate for those that
travel the odd time, but don’t want a full-time travel dryer.
Panasonic Nanoe. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the Guardian
Attachments: 1 styling nozzle, 1 quick-dry nozzle, diffuser
The Panasonic EH-NA65 – horrible name, better performance – split opinion. It
promises to reduce the damage caused by brushing using so-callled nanoe to trap
It’s the biggest and heaviest in the group, but also one of the cheapest, and
it comes with two nozzles and a diffuser in the box.
Its average-length snout made it more difficult to wield than the Dyson or
Parlux, but not quite on the same level as the GHD or Babyliss. Its retro
styling in black and pink appealed to some, but it was the power and
It dried curly hair in about half the time of the others, while preventing
frizz leading one tester to say she would “buy this dryer in a heartbeat”.
The results for people with straight hair were less impressive, with one
complaining it gave no lift with average drying. Another said it was just fine,
The Panasonic was the quietest at its lowest setting but one of the noisiest at
full blast. The filter unclips from the back for easy cleaning.
GHD Aura Professional. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the Guardian
The GHD Aura Professional promises “ultimate volume and stunning shine”, and is
unusual here because it features an external power adapter, shifting the weight
It had a greater difference between the temperature settings than most others,
being almost too hot for some at its highest setting. It was also quieter than
some others, sounding almost like a jet engine spooling up and down, and it
looks the part, but that’s where the plaudits end.
The testers found it was at least 25% slower to dry hair than competitors, with
one with straight hair saying it left hair damp, with no lift in the roots at
The lack of a diffuser, or even one available that would fit, meant it
struggled with curly hair, too. Testers also found it a lot harder than
expected to attach and detach the one supplied nozzle, fearing they would break
it with amount of force required. The filter unscrews from the back for easy
Most described the external power supply as an annoyance rather than a benefit,
Dyson Supersonic. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the Guardian
Noise: 80-85dB – the quietest at full power in our test
The Dyson is the new kid on the block and comes in at double the price of
It looks different, hiding the fan in the handle and having the best weight
balance of them all. The attachments are held on magnetically, the buttons are
digital, it’s very easy to handle and it looks like a piece of technology
rather than the same old hairdryer you’ve had for decades. The filter is easy
to twist off and clean, as are the attachments, and without burning yourself if
Without the nozzles on it was powerful enough, relatively quiet and with a more
pleasing tone than most, but it still made hearing the TV difficult. When an
attachment was added, the Dyson came undone, with the nozzles significantly
reducing the power and airflow. One tester described it as the “Lamborghini of
One straight-haired tester said it left hair shiny, with fewer fly away hairs,
but flat and overly dry. Another said it made hair feel like “like duckling’s
feathers: flat and fluffy rather than sleek and voluminous”.
With the included diffuser one tester said it reduced to a power level “akin to
blowing through a drinking straw” making it next to useless.
It looks good on the shelf, cleaning the filter is as easy as unscrewing it
from the handle, and works just fine without an attachment, but is that really
Verdict: fancy tech doesn’t make for a good hairdryer
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
