  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Twitter should be flying higher with Donald Trump's loyalty
Social media giant is failing to capitalise on US president’s use and is
reluctant to make deep cuts needed to turn a profit
[ ] Twitter has no obvious path to profit or growth even though many see it as
one of the utilities of the internet. Photograph: Kacper Pempel/Reuters
Twitter should be flying higher with Donald Trump's loyalty
Social media giant is failing to capitalise on US president’s use and is
reluctant to make deep cuts needed to turn a profit
Thursday 9 February 2017 14.19 GMT Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
Not even the best efforts of Donald Trump can pull Twitter out of its dive, it
would seem. The company’s fourth-quarter results showed a loss of $167m
(compared with $90m a year before) on flat revenues of $638m, with no clear
path to profit, even though the US President’s frequent outbursts helped
increase the number of users by a modest 2 million to 319 million.
Twitter should be capitalising on the fact that the most powerful man in the
world is using it as his channel to present the alternative facts of his
presidency. Imagine if Trump’s key announcements were made on YouTube: each
But Twitter doesn’t seem to have a knack for making money from what it does,
even though millions wait breathlessly to see what will pop up on it next. Its
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation figures show a
profit – $215m, up from $191m a year before – but that excludes stock
compensation, restructuring and various other expenses.
The reality is that Twitter has too many employees for what it does (and their
stock options drag down profits by $158m a quarter). And what it does to make
money – ie show ads to people – isn’t done well enough. However, its returning
chief executive and co-founder Jack Dorsey seems reluctant to make the deep
Compare it with Facebook, founded just two years earlier, in 2004. Mark
Zuckerberg’s company had fourth-quarter revenues of $8.81bn, 13 times greater
than Twitter, and profits of $3.56bn. Twitter, on the other hand, has never
Dorsey managed to throw in some buzzwords on the analysts call – machine
learning, artificial intelligence – but the company is a wounded bird and
arguably has been ever since it decided its model should be about showing
people adverts. That’s a fight that it was always going to lose to Google and
Facebook, which started earlier and do it better. News publishers aren’t the
What’s next for Twitter? Dorsey doesn’t have a clear answer. “Engagement,” he
told analysts. “Quality,” he said. But there’s no obvious path to profit or
growth for the business, even though many regard it as one of the utilities of
the internet. Nobody can or will buy it while Dorsey is in charge.
But with nearly $1bn in the bank, and positive cashflow, Twitter can probably
last a little while. Just don’t expect it to make a profit.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
