  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Uber calls claims it stole self-driving technology 'demonstrably false'
Ride-hailing company defends itself in federal court filing amid allegations it
lifted LiDAR technology from Waymo, a company spun out of Google
Travis Kalanick, CEO of Uber. The company is defending itself against
[ ] Travis Kalanick, CEO of Uber. The company is defending itself against
allegations it stole technology from Waymo. Photograph: Wang Zhao/AFP/Getty
Uber calls claims it stole self-driving technology 'demonstrably false'
Ride-hailing company defends itself in federal court filing amid allegations it
lifted LiDAR technology from Waymo, a company spun out of Google
Friday 7 April 2017 22.07 BST Last modified on Saturday 8 April 2017 00.50 BST
Uber has begun to mount its defense against allegations that the ride-hailing
company is using technology stolen from Waymo, the self-driving car company
Uber claimed in a federal court filing Friday that it began developing its own
self-driving technology in 2015, before it acquired Otto, a self-driving
trucking startup founded by several former Google employees.
My week as an Uber courier: my bike got stolen, but I kept my five-star rating
The filing, which opposes a Waymo motion for a preliminary injunction against
Uber, contains Uber’s most detailed defense to date since Waymo accused it of
the “calculated theft” of its LiDAR technology in February.
“Both of [Waymo’s] central premises – that former Waymo employees brought
thousands of confidential Waymo documents to Uber to build a copycat LiDAR and
that Uber’s LiDAR closely mimics Waymo’s single-lens design – are demonstrably
false,” the filing states. “A cursory inspection of Uber’s LiDAR and Waymo’s
Waymo’s lawsuit centers around LiDAR – the system of lasers that autonomous
vehicles use to “see” the world – and the actions of Anthony Levandowski, a
longtime Google engineer and pioneer in the field of self-driving cars.
Levandowski left Google in 2016 to found Otto, which was quickly acquired by
Uber. Levandowski was then named the head of Uber’s self-driving car program.
Waymo alleged that Levandowski downloaded about 14,000 documents from Waymo’s
secure server before he left the company, and that he was already in secret
talks with Uber prior to his departure and founding of Otto. Waymo said that
its suspicion that Levandowski and other former employees had taken secrets
about its LiDAR system were confirmed in December when a third-party vendor
mistakenly emailed Waymo designs for a LiDAR circuit board being used by Uber.
Waymo sought an injunction requiring the return of its documents and a halt to
Uber’s use of the allegedly stolen technology – a move that could fatally
handicap Uber in the heated race to commercialize self-driving vehicles.
Uber’s CEO, Travis Kalanick, has frequently called self-driving technology
“existential” to his $70bn business. In its filing Friday, Uber said that
granting the injunction would, among other things, “impede Uber’s efforts to
Uber has not provided a rebuttal to the allegations that Levandowski downloaded
14,000 files. The company has been hampered there by Levandowski’s assertion of
the fifth amendment. At a hearing in March, Levandowski’s lawyers explained
that he was invoking his right against self-incrimination because of the
Levandowski’s invocation of that right has led to complicated and, at times,
heated arguments in court, with his attorneys arguing that even providing a
list of privileged documents to Waymo could violate his rights.
During a hearing on Thursday, Uber’s attorney Arturo Gonzalez said that the
engineer was “not someone who has to steal anything”, adding, “He knows his
“Then why did he take the 14,000 documents?” Judge William Alsup retorted.
Uber's Seattle woes: union battle could see company leave another major city
In its filing, Uber claimed that it had “never had possession of or used any of
Waymo’s trade secrets or the 14,000 documents”. The company described the
development of its own LiDAR system, which it said was substantially different
Uber’s LiDAR, the company said, used four lenses, while Waymo’s used one, a
fundamental difference that Uber suggests proves that the device is not based
“Uber’s assertion that they’ve never touched the 14,000 stolen files is
disingenuous at best, given their refusal to look in the most obvious place:
the computers and devices owned by the head of their self-driving program,” a
Waymo spokesperson said in a statement. “We’re asking the court to step in
based on clear evidence that Uber is using, or plans to use, our trade secrets
to develop their LiDAR technology, as seen in both circuit board blueprints and
Alsup will rule on the motion after a hearing scheduled for 3 May.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
