  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Amber Rudd's 'showdown' talks with tech firms on extremism are pure PR
Meetings between UK government and Facebook et al are more ritual than battle
as they avoid subjects both parties disagree on, such as tax and user privacy
[ ] Unlike many disagreements, extremist material on social media is one where
both tech companies and Amber Rudd and the government broadly agree.
Amber Rudd's 'showdown' talks with tech firms on extremism are pure PR
Meetings between UK government and Facebook et al are more ritual than battle
as they avoid subjects both parties disagree on, such as tax and user privacy
Friday 31 March 2017 09.24 BST First published on Thursday 30 March 2017 
As the government and technology companies butt heads yet again over extremist
material on social media, both sides may be giving a silent prayer of thanks
that the battleground is one on which they are both quite comfortable.
Top tech firms avoid encryption issue in government talks
Unlike many disagreements, extremist material on social media is one where each
side broadly agrees on what the best outcome looks like. Neither the government
nor the social networks – in this case represented by Facebook, Google, Twitter
and, oddly, Microsoft, but not Apple – want pro-Isis material sitting on the
open net for anyone to read. All agree that the systems in place need
improvement and all are working on better models and definitions to help
precisely identify extremist content and remove it rapidly.
That is not to say there are not disagreements over the detail. Parsing the UK
home secretary Amber Rudd’s comments on Sunday, about finding “people who
understand the necessary hashtags”, at their most reasonable interpretation,
the government would like tech firms to not only take extremist material down,
but prevent it from being posted in the first place.
Technology firms, perhaps reasonably, object that to do so would turn them into
judge, jury and executioner over content that is for the most part legal, if
unpleasant. And even that may be a moot point given pre-emptively censoring
content is somewhere on the scale of technologically tricky to effectively
Simple term searches, such as those used in China to prevent social media users
discussing the Tiananmen Square protests, fail in the face of human ingenuity
at coming up with synonyms and allegory. For evidence, take a look at the
American far right, which decided to use the product names of tech companies in
place of ethnic slurs: “kill all the Skypes”, for instance.
But the potential for disagreement is, by and large, limited to a narrow area
of dispute and one where the technology companies and government can always
come out of any discussions agreeing to work together in the spirit of shared
That is very different from other, more divisive, disagreements, like those
over how much tax should be paid in which jurisdiction, the extent to which
giant technology firms have, and abuse, monopoly power, or the tension between
the revenue sources of social media companies and the personal privacy of their
users. On those discussions, there is not only the potential of damaging
disagreements, but also much more at stake for the technology companies if they
Uber VP of communications, Rachel Whetstone – pictured here in her former role
as Michael Howard’s political secretary – is part of the rotating door between
government and the upper echelons of the technology industry. Photograph:
It’s no surprise that the two groups want to keep on largely good terms,
however. Small though Britain may be on the world stage (and two years from
shrinking further), it still represents a large, wealthy market for all the
firms summoned to meet the home secretary. And for the British government,
technology firms occasionally seem like a form of magic, a bottled potential
which only Silicon Valley has ever really been able to successfully replicate.
No government wants to be perceived as “anti-tech”: to do carries connotations
somewhere in between “anti-business” and “anti-success”.
That pro-technology attitude is helped by what can be seen as a rotating door
between government and the upper echelons of the technology industry, in both
Rachel Whetstone, the VP of communications for Uber, hit the headlines earlier
this week for her close ties to David Cameron’s administration. Whetstone, who
is married to sandal-wearing former policy adviser Steve Hilton, is close to
both Cameron and George Osborne, and allegedly used those connections to
successfully lobby Boris Johnson to support the cab-hire company.
Twitter’s public policy manager in the UK is former Tory parliamentary
candidate Nick Pickles; Airbnb’s lobbyist team in the US includes former
Republican congressman representative Vin Weber. In 2016, it was found at least
80 people have made “revolving door” moves between European governments and
From the government’s point of view, the need for easy wins in the court of
public opinion – looking tough on tech firms who, if they didn’t radicalise the
perpetrator of the attacks in Westminster, are probably radicalising someone,
right? – is balanced by a desire to avoid the tricky business of actually
Not only is there not really time to hammer out a carefully considered bill on
hate speech now that Brexit is likely to dominate the agenda for the
foreseeable future, but doing so would open the government up to questions that
Questions like “what actually constitutes extremist material?”, “How can you
write a bill that limits what can be said on social media without also
affecting what can be printed by the British press?”, and “Won’t any bill serve
to concentrate yet more power on the large tech firms, who are the only ones
with the resources to actually implement such filters?” No government will want
to bring these upon its own head when all it was looking for was a PR win.
So the tech companies get called in for their ritual berating, hang their heads
and say they’re sorry. The government gets to say it’s tough, without losing
its powerful friends. And the whole thing goes on as it was before.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
