  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
UK games industry: 40% of companies considering relocating after Brexit
Industry trade body Ukie found 57% of games companies employ workers from the
The UK is the sixth largest games market in the world in terms of consumer
[ ] The UK is the sixth largest games market in the world in terms of consumer
UK games industry: 40% of companies considering relocating after Brexit
Industry trade body Ukie found 57% of games companies employ workers from the
Thursday 30 March 2017 11.09 BST Last modified on Friday 31 March 2017 
Two fifths of games companies based in the UK are considering relocating out of
the country in the wake of Brexit, a survey has found.
The primary concern across the industry is over a loss in international talent
from EU countries creating a skills shortage which 40% say could make them move
some or all of their operations. Ukie, the industry trade body that carried out
the research, found 57% of UK games companies employ workers from the EU, and
that at those companies EU workers represent an average one third of all
Some 98% of those surveyed believe EU nationals who have the necessary skills
should be given a blanket right to work in the UK in the future. With a
shortage of skilled UK candidates, barriers for EU workers wanting to live and
work in the UK would have a negative impact on the industry.
According to Ukie’s latest market valuation, the UK is the sixth largest games
market in the world in terms of consumer revenues. Consumer spend in 2016
reached £4.33bn, up 1.2% from the previous year. The country boasts more than
2,000 games companies, with 12,100 full-time employees.
Bossa Studios co-founder and CEO Henrique Olifiers said: “The damaging
uncertainty caused by Brexit to our EU employees, and not having open access to
the brightest and best European talent, some of whom are now refusing to
resettle in the UK, is forcing us to have to assess whether it will be at all
possible to produce our future games in this country.”
The future of retail is also uncertain, as about one third of market share
comes from physical sales, which may be subject to tariffs when the UK leaves
the EU. A spokesperson for games retailer Game says: “We are aware of, and
monitoring closely, potential future changes including the possible impact of
imposing tariffs on physical products and it is important to us that the UK
retains the ease of trade that exists today.” Non-tariff barriers such as
content restrictions and data localisation are also a concern for UK games
Leaving the EU may also leave UK companies unable to access funding from
European programmes such as Creative Europe, which has funded studios such as
the multi-Bafta winning The Chinese Room (creators of Dear Esther and
Everybody’s Gone to the Rapture). Studio head Dan Pinchbeck said: “We should be
doing everything we can to call for continued inclusion in such programmes
post-Brexit, or for our government to provide alternative support for our
According to pre-referendum surveys, the UK games industry was largely against
Brexit. Since the triggering of article 50, Ukie has stated its resolve to
ensure the industry gets the best possible deal, emphasising the importance of
improving the immigration system and maintaining ease of trade.
“The Triggering of Article 50 signals the beginning of the end of the
uncertainty we’ve all been facing since the Referendum last June,” said CEO Dr
Jo Twist. “Ukie will continue to work with government across departments to
ensure the industry’s needs are met, particularly around global talent, data
and investment in homegrown innovation and creativity.”
    Mothercare to raise prices after pound's Brexit slide
    Childrenswear and maternity retailer says it plans to increase price of
    Mothercare to raise prices after pound's Brexit slide
    Snack attack! Doritos and Coco Pops among latest products to shrink in UK
    Fall in the pound and sugar reduction efforts cited as reasons for latest
    Snack attack! Doritos and Coco Pops among latest products to shrink in UK
    Sharp rise in UK food prices inflates household shopping bills
    Supermarket moves to ditch promotions coupled with weakened pound following
    Brexit vote add average £21.31 to quarterly food bills
    Sharp rise in UK food prices inflates household shopping bills
    Champagne producers try to regain fizz as weak pound dents UK sales
    As sales slide thanks to Brexit uncertainty and inflation, the French
    industry is turning to even more exclusive vintages
    Champagne producers try to regain fizz as weak pound dents UK sales
      □ New John Lewis boss warns of further job cuts and price rises
        New John Lewis boss warns of further job cuts and price rises
      □ Price of imported fruit and vegetables 'will rise by up to 8% after
        Price of imported fruit and vegetables 'will rise by up to 8% after
      □ ​Sweet Brexit: what sugar tells us about Britain’s future outside the
        ​Sweet Brexit: what sugar tells us about Britain’s future outside the
      □ Austerity bites? Less chocolate for your money as packets shrink
        Austerity bites? Less chocolate for your money as packets shrink
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
