  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Sodas, fries and killing zombies: games arcades are back
A beloved but long-struggling industry sees a fresh start in VR, and in Bangkok
headsets and high-powered PCs have replaced the coin-op machines of old
A woman playing a game in the VR1 arcade in Bangkok
[ ] Could prohibitively expensive virtual-reality hardware prompt a resurgence
Sodas, fries and killing zombies: games arcades are back
A beloved but long-struggling industry sees a fresh start in VR, and in Bangkok
headsets and high-powered PCs have replaced the coin-op machines of old
Tuesday 4 April 2017 07.00 BST Last modified on Tuesday 4 April 2017 22.00 BST
A group of guys clutching greasy fries and icy sodas fixating wide-eyed on a
screen where their friend is manically shooting the limbs off zombies. The gang
have bought credit for an hour of gaming — surely more than enough time for
But maybe, just maybe, they’ll clinch the glory of a high score too.
There is, however, one change from the joystick and buttons of the traditional
games arcade. The giant coin-operated machines with a 2D screens are gone – in
their place, virtual reality headsets and hand-tracking controllers link up to
Once a thriving multi-billion dollar business, the arcade industry plummeted
when video game giants such as Nintendo, Sega, Sony and Microsoft released
cheap home consoles. Yet the launch of virtual-reality hardware — still
prohibitively expensive for the average individual to buy — could see a
Keng Thongchua, a 33-year-old Thai software developer, opened the VR1 cafe in
Bangkok in December just a few months after seeing the technology at a Las
He installed six gaming cubicles, with a couch and screen for friends to follow
the action. The most popular game, he says, is Arizona Sunshine, where up to
four people in headsets can fight their way together through zombie hordes in
‘At first we thought we would just have young people,’ said VR1 Cafe owner Keng
“At first we thought we would just have young people,” Thongchua said. But his
clients are more varied than the teenage boy arcade stereotype.
The daytime sees parents with younger children. At 3pm the high-school students
arrive when classes finish. “From six to nine we have the office worker. And
late at night, we get the people who want to hang out but not get wasted in a
There are two high-quality sets on the market at the moment — the Vive, made by
Taiwanese company HTC and US developer Valve, and the Oculus Rift, which began
on Kickstarter and was subsequently bought by Facebook for $2 billion.
Thongchua says that the huge sum – more than the cost Mark Zuckerberg paid for
So far, business is going well. Paying the equivalent of £15 for an hour,
customers can shoot aliens, use Google Earth VR to ‘walk’ around the planet or
HTC has noticed the potential, so much so that it is working with arcades to
install and run VR experiences and bill them accordingly. This should allow
“New venues are opening up everywhere, from brand new standalone locations to
dedicated spaces in movie theatres, shopping malls and even casinos,” said
Jenna Seiden, who is heading the Viveport Arcade initiative. “It is a big part
of our strategy for getting more people to experience VR.”
The programme starts next month, launching first in China where HTC says more
than 1,000 VR arcades are operating. Imax has already signed on as a partner.
“We believe that for many people their first introduction to VR will be out of
the home and therefore we have been both learning from and supporting many of
these location-based entertainment initiatives, such as VR arcades, for the
Prices keep the new technology out of most consumers’ homes. A full retail Vive
set is £759 and that does not include a computer, which can easily cost over
£1,000 if it is to include the demanding graphics card needed to run some
The VR arcade industry could suffer the same fate of its predecessor if the
But the market is competitive and Oculus has already dropped its price after
only a few months by a fifth in the UK and a quarter in the US.
There are also cheaper versions of VR, such as Google Cardboard or Samsung Gear
, but they use mobile phones as screens, which have lower quality visuals.
Playstation, too, has released a VR set that retails at around £500, depending
on what you get. It has a lower screen resolution and games run off a
five-year-old console that lacks the processing capability of a top-range PC.
The VR arcade industry could suffer the same fate of its predecessor if the
For now, office worker Shawn Kangwanshirathada plays in Bangkok’s VR1 cafe
every couple weeks, enjoying the arcade revival while it lasts.
He used to play Street Fighter as a kid in the 90s, bashing buttons furiously
to win a virtual brawl. Now his work colleagues play Elven Assassin, a game
“It’s a unique experience. The first time I put it on, I couldn’t believe it.
The feeling, it’s almost real. Especially games when you feel like you’re
“With the archery, you can get some pretty good exercise.”
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
