  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
A robot on display at last month's CeBit computer fair in Germany
[ ] A robot on display at last month’s CeBit computer fair in Germany. Reader
Dr John Ellis argues that Britain needs proper planning to avoid the pitfalls
Monday 10 April 2017 19.04 BST Last modified on Monday 10 April 2017 22.00 BST
Martha Lane Fox’s views on bringing responsibility to technology are
commendable (Technology is a marvel. Now let’s make it moral, 10 April). But I
wonder whether politics and capitalism will obstruct socialist and moral
decisions, as they have since Asimov first warned of the dangers and set out
his three laws of robotics over half a century ago. We have the increasing use
of drones in warfare; computers in trading stocks and shares; a trend towards a
cashless society where a bank computer would store your e-funds, and commercial
giants taking over the web. You might say we now have George Orwell’s 1984,
where a large section of the population is spying on the rest.
We certainly need the responsibilities that go with technological freedom. But
Lane Fox gives no coherent view as to how to implement these aims, especially
as this may have to be retrospective too. I would like nothing better than to
see the UK excel in technological prowess, particularly with regard to the
benefits to society at large. But this may involve increasing regulations – of
the sort that the Brexiters want to put on the bonfire. While Lane Fox extols
the virtues of opportunity, we actually need an action plan rather than a list
of “could-do’s”. Unfortunately, planning has not been a strong point in the
• To make technology moral we need education for democracy more than digital
skills. Automation, innovation and the internet unleash great opportunities for
humanity, but they will create social disasters without decent rules to share
the gains and minimise the pains. To build technology that is fair, people need
a voice in the companies and places where it is developed. Yes, we need digital
understanding, but only democratic participation in decision-making will give
• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com
• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
