  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
What I’m really thinking: the Silicon Valley newcomer
One friend’s version of meal planning for the weekend is to stock up on free
What I’m really thinking: the Silicon Valley newcomer
One friend’s version of meal planning for the weekend is to stock up on free
My husband and I moved here for the jobs. This place had way more than we could
imagine. We packed our bags and uprooted our lives without ever having been to
the west coast. Being selected to work for a major tech company was like
winning the lottery; it wasn’t a question of whether you’d accept the prize,
Most of the friends we’ve made are colleagues from other states who are here
for the same reason. The companies we work for have taken over the role of our
parents, sponsoring what feels like an extension of our college years: free
meals, laundry and shuttle buses. We are making six-figure salaries, but we’re
also slow to outgrow the frugal student lifestyle. One friend’s version of
meal-planning for the weekend is to stock up on free food from the office
cafeteria on Fridays. Apparently, this is common practice.
The last time my manager gave me a raise, I thanked her and said I didn’t know
what to do with that kind of money. Secretly, I and other Silicon Valley
transplants know what happens to it: whatever is left after our (astronomical)
rent gets stashed away in preparation for the lives we plan to lead after
leaving the Valley. You know everyone is just passing through. “So, how long do
you plan on staying?” is a typical question for a new colleague, as if they’ve
It’s hard not to feel dispirited when my husband and I know our support system
out here consists of people who might decide to leave at any time. Still, we
are grateful for their company. A community of transients is better than none.
• Tell us what you’re really thinking – email mind@theguardian.com
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
