  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
From Paint 3D to Start menu folders, greater privacy control and a dedicated
[ ] Paint 3D headlines a group of tools and enhancements aimed at making
From Paint 3D to Start menu folders, greater privacy control and a dedicated
Thursday 6 April 2017 12.34 BST Last modified on Thursday 6 April 2017 
The next big update for Microsoft’s ubiquitous Windows 10 operating system is
here. The so-called Creators Update adds a host of new features from MS Paint
The Creators Update will begin being pushed out to users via Windows Update on
11 April, but for those eager to get their hands on it early, it’s available
via a manual update or a fresh install of Windows using the Media Creation
Tool. It sounds ominous, but using its ability to upgrade the PC it’s running
on is very straightforward. Here are the top seven features worth hitting
Forza Horizon 3 Lamborghini on Beach Photograph: Playground Games
Other operating systems might pretend to be PC gaming capable, but for the most
part it’s all about Windows. Now Windows 10 has a dedicated game mode which
diverts resources away from unnecessary background tasks to the game at hand.
Whether it’ll make a huge difference to game performance isn’t yet certain, but
in cases where your PC’s hardware can only just manage the latest and greatest
Paint 3D makes basic 2D image editing easier, but adds a whole new dimension.
Microsoft’s perennial Paint program has finally been dragged kicking and
screaming into the modern era. Now called Paint 3D, at it’s heart it’s still a
lightweight image editor for cropping, drawing and adding simple text. But it
can now author 3D images as well as simple 2D ones, taking flat images and
putting them onto 3D shapes, importing and creating shapes in 3D and various
other forward-looking tools. It’s quite fun to play with, whether it’ll be a
Night light aims to reduce the amount of blue light emitted by the screen after
Following the lead of Apple, Google and many third-party developers over the
years, Windows 10 now has a Night Light feature, which reduces the amount of
blue light emitted by the screen either on demand or in time with sunset. The
idea is that wavelengths of light at the blue end of the spectrum prevent
people from getting to sleep at night, and so by tuning the colour of the
screen towards warmer shades less blue light is emitted.
Dynamic Lock uses the Bluetooth signal from a smartphone to tell whether a
person is actively sitting in front of the PC and if not, to lock the screen.
Once logged in, the PC functions as normal while you’re sitting at it and locks
when you go away, if you have your phone with you at all times.
Edge will now save groups of tabs for later. Photograph: Microsoft
The Edge browser has gained a few new tricks. You can now collect tabs for
later, removing their load from your PC while you’re not using them but not
losing the page. It blocks some Flash elements by default, requiring a click to
run them, and Edge now has built-in support for Microsoft Wallet for buying
Start menu tiles can now be put in folders. Photograph: Microsoft
The Start menu has gone full circle. First it was all about folders in a
massive list. Then it was a full page of icons, then a smaller pop-out menu of
icons, but now users can put those icons in folders. They look a little
different to the Start menu folders of old (that still exist in the full list
of programs) resembling folders on an Android or iOS device, but do the same
Windows 10 Creators Update privacy toggles give users more control over the
With the Creators Update, Microsoft has reduced the amount of data it collects
from user machines and refined what is needed to support various functions. The
majority of data collected is done so to help fix problems, but users can now
tailor some of the things that are collected on installing or updating Windows
to the new version. Non-enterprise users will still have difficulty preventing
Windows from sending any data back to Microsoft, but Home and Pro users now
have more control, which is a step in the right direction.
  • Windows 10 users complain about intrusive new OneDrive adverts
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
