  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Are there any good Windows 10 tablets to replace an old Surface RT?
John’s wife wants to replace her Microsoft Surface RT, which she uses in her
job as a tutor. Are there any affordable Intel-based tablets up to the job?
Microsoft RT users had to be content with Windows Store apps and web-based
[ ] Microsoft RT users had to be content with Windows Store apps and web-based
Are there any good Windows 10 tablets to replace an old Surface RT?
John’s wife wants to replace her Microsoft Surface RT, which she uses in her
job as a tutor. Are there any affordable Intel-based tablets up to the job?
Thursday 2 March 2017 09.59 GMT Last modified on Thursday 2 March 2017 
    My wife has used a Microsoft Surface RT tablet for a few years in her job
    as a tutor. She has found its size and the touch keyboard invaluable in her
    planning and writing up of lessons, especially as this often happens in the
    car between pupils. Unfortunately, it is becoming less reliable, and much
    slower, and she is looking for a replacement. She has looked at the new
    Surface Pros, but does not want to spend more than £500. She requires
    Microsoft Office, a long battery life and portability.
    By the way, I also wanted to thank you for the advice you gave my daughter
    in What sort of tablet should I buy for drawing? Niamh bought a Wacom
Microsoft launched the Surface RT in 2012 when the tablet market looked
promising. It was the first tablet to run Windows on an ARM chip, which
provided long battery life. It also made it incompatible with all the
traditional software written for Intel x86 versions of Windows, including
The Surface RT tablets included Microsoft Office, which was good, but it wasn’t
optimised for touch-screen use, which was bad. Otherwise, users had to be
content with Windows Store apps and web-based applications.
While Surface RT users loved their machines, there were not many of them, and
Microsoft abandoned the ARM line in favour of the successful Intel-based
Surface Pro versions. However, ARM-based versions will return to the market
Your wife’s Surface RT should not have slowed down that much, and a reset might
speed it up again. To do this, take a backup of the current system – or at
least, all the personal data – and restore it to factory condition. Run the
Settings app (cogwheel icon), select Update & security, click Recovery and then
hit the “Get started” button under “Reset this PC”.
The drawback is that you will have to reinstall all the updates that have been
Windows has a lot of visual effects: for example, things slide into view
instead of instantly popping into view. To change this, type in “advanced
system settings” to find the System Properties sheet from the old Control
Panel. In the Performance section, click the Settings button and then select
After that, go through the list of effects and restore any you still want.
“Enable Peek”, “Show shadows under mouse pointer”, “Show window contents while
dragging” and “Smooth edges of screen fonts” are worth keeping.
Unfortunately, the Surface RT is a sealed box, like most tablets. You can’t get
the simple improvement that works with desktop and some laptop PCs: just add
The whole tablet market is in decline – Apple iPad sales are roughly half what
they were at their peak – and manufacturers are shifting resources to AR
(augmented reality, such as the Microsoft HoloLens) and VR (virtual reality,
such as the Oculus Rift). Windows PC manufacturers switched to 2-in-1s and then
convertibles, where sales are still growing strongly.
Unfortunately, the better products are generally more expensive, including the
Microsoft Surface Pro 4, the HP Spectre x2, HP Elite x2, and Dell Latitude 11
5175. There’s a huge gap between pro tablets and convertibles with Intel Core
processors, 8GB of memory and proper SSDs and the cheap, casual models with
Intel Atom processors, 2GB of memory and 32GB of eMMC Flash storage.
It can be hard to find affordable machines in the “sweet spot” between the two
extremes. These may have Intel Core M processors such as the Core m3-6Y30 and
4GB or 8GB of memory. The best compromise is a Cherry Trail (x3, x5 or x7)
The one I’d recommend at the moment is last year’s Lenovo Miix 310, which has
an Atom x5-Z8350 processor, 4GB of memory and 64GB of storage for a current web
price of £249.99 (£30 off). However, this week, Lenovo unveiled the Miix 320
with 128GB of storage, so it might be worth waiting for that.
The main alternative is the Asus Transformer Book T100HA, which has a Cherry
Trail x5-Z8500 processor, 2GB of memory and either 32GB or 64GB of storage.
Currently, eBuyer has the 2GB/64GB model for £229.97 with free delivery. The
T100HA has been around for a while, and the Miix 310 has twice the memory and a
In both cases, the electronics are behind the screen, so you can detach the
screen from the keyboard and use it as a tablet. (The virtual keyboard is built
into Windows 10.) The alternative is to keep the electronics under the keyboard
and fit a 360-degree hinge. Folding the keyboard behind the screen provides a
somewhat thicker tablet. The Lenovo Yoga range pioneered this approach, and
your wife could have a look at one to see if the idea is acceptable. Yogas come
in dozens of configurations but a Yoga 300 with an Intel Pentium N3710, 4GB of
memory and 64GB of storage costs £279.99 from PC World. The N3710 is faster
With a Lenovo Yoga Book, you can write and draw on the keyboard. Photograph:
You don’t say if your wife is using a stylus. I hope so, because a
Surface-style device, Microsoft OneNote and a stylus is a terrific system for
educational use. However, adding a stylus and a pen-capable screen bumps up the
The main exception is the Asus Transformer Mini T102HA (x5-Z8350/4GB/64GB) with
a stylus, which costs £449.95 at John Lewis, or £398.46 on Amazon. However,
Microsoft currently has a Signature Edition (ie crapware free) version for only
I believe the Mini T102HA is the cheapest current 2-in-1 with a stylus, unless
you are willing to risk a Chinese product such as a Teclast X3 Pro or X5 Pro.
These aren’t even included in Tablet PC Review’s invaluable spreadsheet of
The other possibility is Microsoft’s Surface 3 – not the same as a Surface Pro
3 – if you can still find one at a reasonable price. Microsoft has some at a
“student price” of £449.99, if you pre-qualify as a student.
Lenovo’s very innovative Yoga Book is also worth a look at £549.99.
Windows 10 is a mobile operating system, like Android, and also runs on ARM
chips in smartphones, which aren’t expected to run traditional x86 Windows
programs. Later this year, however, we expect to see ARM-based tablets and
small laptops running Windows 10 on the next-generation Qualcomm Snapdragon 835
processor. Qualcomm has a Microsoft demo video on its website.
These new devices won’t be the same as the Surface RT. The main difference is
that they have enough power to run traditional x86 programs under emulation.
The Snapdragon 835 also supports touch, pen and the latest wireless standards:
Early models will probably be designed and priced for corporate use, but
Have you got another question for Jack? Email it to Ask.Jack@theguardian.com
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
