  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
I tried every set of wireless earbuds until I found some that worked, so you
Over the course of a year, our tester tried several pairs of cable-free
earbuds. Fledgling technology with plenty of flaws – are any worth your money?
assistant technology editor Samuel Gibbs testing bluetooth earbuds
[ ] Bluetooth earbud headphones finally put a smile on Samuel Gibbs’s face.
I tried every set of wireless earbuds until I found some that worked, so you
Over the course of a year, our tester tried several pairs of cable-free
earbuds. Fledgling technology with plenty of flaws – are any worth your money?
Friday 16 December 2016 07.00 GMT Last modified on Tuesday 21 February 2017 
Completely wireless earbuds are the future of in-ear music, freeing us from the
shackles of cables even between the ears. But while many have tried to make
wireless earbuds that work, very few actually do. Others haven’t even got
theirs to market yet, with even Apple being forced to delay its AirPods for six
The big problem with those that do exist is most cannot maintain a solid
connection between themselveswhile on opposite sides of your head. To
complicate things, smartphones are not all born equally for Bluetooth
To conduct the test I used a Google Pixel XL, Samsung Galaxy S7 Edge and Apple
iPhone 7 and tried as many earbuds as I could get my hands on, finally finding
Earin were some of the first on the market and are still one of the most
comfortable, but just aren’t reliable enough. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the
Earin look like old school car cigarette lighters shrunk so they can fit in
your ear. They lack any buttons or controls, charge in a long cylindrical
battery case and sound pretty good for over two hours between trips in the
They worked better with the Galaxy S7 Edge than the rest of the smartphones,
but could not maintain a stable connection between the two earbuds, with the
right slave bud cutting out intermittently while walking down the street. They
also blast a loud pop into your earholes when they run out of battery.
The Motorola VerveOnes+ stick out further than most, but are water resistant
and ready for exercise. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the Guardian
Available in a sweat-proof “plus” version and normal, the VerveOnes+ use a
rubber-coated back to them to wedge themselves in your ear. They stick out
further than most, but were comfortable, lasting a couple of hours between
They were fine when out running connected to a smartwatch, and worked better
than some others, but still struggled to maintain a connection between the left
and right earbuds when walking in town, in the office or the train station.
Verdict: OK for running, but frustrating for commuting
If you want to look like a minicab driver, the PK K’asq are the ones you want.
If you want to look like you’re a taxi driver, but with a Bluetooth headset in
each ear, the PK K’asq are for you. They stick out your ear and draw odd looks
I found them deeply uncomfortable in my ear, they sounded OK, but failed badly,
with both earbuds cutting out when the connection between them was lost while
Small and light, the Rowkin Bit Charge are the idea form factor but do not cut
the mustard. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the Guardian
Some of the smallest buds on the market, when they work they sound OK, are
relatively comfortable and are the most discreet in this bunch. They’re
available in two versions, with and without a charging case, held into their
They struggled to maintain a connection between themselves, and the pairing
routine was downright tedious if you wanted to connect them to another device.
Bragi’s the Headphone hold a stable connection, sound pretty good and last
longer than you’ll want to listen to them in one go. Photograph: Alicia Canter
Bragi made some of the very first wireless earbuds with the Dash produced from
a $3m Kickstarter campaign in 2014. They were a combination between earbud and
fitness tracker that failed to live up to expectations.
Now the new Bragi the Headphone – stupid name as they’re earbuds not headphones
– aims to simplify things and fix the problems that held back the Dash and so
The earphones are kidney-shaped with an earbud sticking out like an old
gramophone horn, which blasts the sound down your earhole and keeps them in
place. They’re light and nothing else of the earbuds has to touch your ears and
you can wear them in multiple orientations making them the most comfortable
The right earbud has three buttons. The bottom one is the power button – hold
for three seconds to turn them on or off – as well as the play, pause and
skip-track button. The left and right buttons adjust volume and switch ambient
noise on and off, which pipes the sounds of the environment around you into
your ear using the microphones built into the earbuds. The buttons are a bit
stiff, but it’s not too difficult to grab the back of the bud with your finger
They sound pretty good, once you get the fit right with the tips – they come
with three, but only the comply foam ones did the job for me – and are
comfortable to wear for extended periods. They do not sound as good as a £125
pair of wired earbuds, but they’re balanced, with decent separation, mids and
highs. Those looking for thunderous bass are out of luck and you have to put up
with a small hiss sound in the background when they’re active.
The Headphone earbuds slot into the case ready for charging, but do not contain
a battery for on-the-go charging. Photograph: Bragi
Bragi reckons they’ll last for six hours between charges. They lasted more like
five in my testing. The case doesn’t have a battery, which means you need to
plug it in to charge your earbuds, but is has the plus of being able to
completely turn off the Headphone meaning they’ll still have charge when you
But they have one winning feature that sets them apart from almost all the
others: rock-solid connectivity with all smartphones in the group.
Whether it’s to your smartphone or between themselves, the Headphone simply
work where others do not. In the office, on the train, on the underground, on a
bus, walking down the street or through a train station, they kept their
Call quality, although only in mono through the right earbud, was excellent and
Verdict: simple, good-sounding, comfortable and work, making them worth buying
A rock-solid connection and ear-conforming shape mean the Jabra Elite Sport
bluetooth earbuds are a worthy contender. Photograph: Alicia Canter for the
Jabra have a long history of making good but not overly popular Bluetooth
headphones. The Elite are the company’s first wireless earbuds and while
they’re relatively late to the game, they’re worth waiting for.
Unlike the Bragi, the Elite earbuds fill the ear like a canal shell hearing
aid. The bottom bit, which has a heart rate sensor in it in the right earbud,
fits against your antitragus and the top bit the lower crural of the antihelix,
holding the earbuds securely in place while the tip fits into your ear canal.
They come with three sizes of wing and three different sizes of earbud in two
materials, but I found the smallest wings to completely fill my outer ear. The
right felt a little uncomfortable at first, but settled down. The left ear is
obviously a slightly different shape as the top part of the earbud constantly
The Elite’s connection both between each bud and to any of the smartphones was
rock solid with no interruptions under any of the conditions I tested. They
sound pretty good, with more bass than the Bragi, although slightly less
balance and separation in the rest of the range. They also blocked out more
ambient noise, but still made a small hiss sound when active in the ear.
The Elite Sport earbuds clip into the small battery case for storage and
Each earbud has two buttons and two microphones. The right earbud controls
pause, play and starts exercise tracking. Double pressing the play button also
activates ambient sound. The left earbud has volume control buttons, which you
They last for about three hours and come with a compact battery case that will
The buds can track heart rate, fed to the Jabra Sport Life app, and provide
audio guidance for workouts, runs, races and recovery sessions, using the GPS
Call quality was good and in stereo, but the recipient couldn’t hear me quite
Verdict: larger size could make them less comfortable, but they have rock-solid
  • Five of the best Bluetooth headphones to break free of cables
  • Optoma NuForce BE6 review: Bluetooth earbuds worth buying
  • Plantronics BackBeat Sense review: light, long-lasting and great sounding
  • Marshall Major II Bluetooth headphones: they last for ages and sound great
  • Bose QC35 wireless headphones: simply unrivalled noise cancelling
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
