  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Get outta town: startup offers workers $10,000 if they 'delocate' from Silicon
Offer from Zapier comes as high-paid tech workers in Bay Area have complained
about the cost of living in a region that suffers from a major housing shortage
Zapier wanted to take advantage of tech workers’ desire to leave the Bay Area
by offering a competitive package to those ‘on the fence’ about staying in the
[ ] Zapier wanted to take advantage of tech workers’ desire to leave the Bay
Area by offering a competitive package to those ‘on the fence’ about staying in
Get outta town: startup offers workers $10,000 if they 'delocate' from Silicon
Offer from Zapier comes as high-paid tech workers in Bay Area have complained
about the cost of living in a region that suffers from a major housing shortage
Wednesday 22 March 2017 11.00 GMT Last modified on Wednesday 22 March 2017 
A Silicon Valley startup is paying employees $10,000 to leave Silicon Valley.
Zapier, an automation company founded in 2011, has announced that it is
offering new recruits a hefty “de-location package” if they’re willing to move
away from the Bay Area, an unusual perk that offers yet another sign of the
Zapier, where all employees work remotely, recently announced that if current
Bay Area residents were interested in improving their “family’s standard of
living” by relocating, the firm would provide $10,000 in moving reimbursements.
Since CEO Wade Foster posted about the package last week, the uptick in
applicants has been dramatic, he said in an interview.
“A lot of folks just have a difficult time making the Bay Area a long-term
home,” he said, noting that the firm heard from roughly 150 job applicants over
the weekend, including 50 who specifically mentioned the de-location offer.
The offer from Zapier comes as high-paid tech workers in San Francisco and
Silicon Valley have increasingly complained about the high cost of living in a
region that suffers from a major housing shortage. Tech workers earning between
$100,000 and $700,000 recently spoke to the Guardian about their real estate
struggles, and one study suggested that for some engineers, more than 50% of
By many measures, San Francisco has the priciest real estate in the country.
The housing crisis has had devastating impacts on low-income neighborhoods,
particularly communities of color, as the growth of companies like Facebook,
Google, Apple and Twitter have helped spur mass evictions, homelessness and
Wade Foster, Zapier’s CEO: ‘A lot of folks just have a difficult time making
Wade Foster, Zapier’s CEO: ‘A lot of folks just have a difficult time making
the Bay Area a long-term home.’ Photograph: Zapier
But middle-class and wealthier tech workers have also spoken up about their
difficulties buying homes and raising families near their jobs, leading to
articles about the “next Silicon Valley” emerging in regions across the US,
including Texas, the Pacific northwest and the Midwest.
Foster said he wanted to take advantage of tech workers’ desire to leave the
Bay Area by offering a competitive package to those “on the fence” about
“The Bay Area is a great place to live. It’s fun to be here,” said Foster, 30,
who lives with his wife in Sunnyvale, a city located near the Facebook and
Google campuses. “At the end of the day, if you can’t make the money side of it
Foster said he got the idea after two recent hires decided to move out of the
Bay Area to Florida and Pennsylvania to be closer to their families. “We’ve
basically just flipped relocation assistance on its head.”
The $10,000 offer from Zapier – a platform that connects apps to automate tasks
and now employs 85 people – bucks a number of trends in Silicon Valley hiring.
Facebook faced criticisms for accelerating gentrification and worsening the
housing crunch when it offered employees $10,000 to leave near its Menlo Park
campus. In 2013, Yahoo made headlines when it banned employees from working at
home, arguing that communication in an office setting was critical.
Foster said he has long embraced remote working and that more startups should
consider the model given how many talented workers want to move away from the
“We’ve seen the technology advance to a state where people can legitimately
work anywhere in the world,” he said, noting that his staff is global, with
clusters of employees in Austin, Portland and the Bay Area.
Foster said he enjoys living in Silicon Valley, but he doesn’t know how long
he’ll stay either. “As we start to think about a family ourselves, it’s a
    The activists with homes who sleep on the street: 'Our survival is against
    Three people will appear in a Denver court to contest ‘unauthorized
    camping’ tickets, but one of the defendants says she was only ‘sleeping
    The activists with homes who sleep on the street: 'Our survival is against
    Living under a tarp next to Facebook HQ: 'I don't want people to see me'
    The sprawling Silicon Valley campus has cafes, bike repair services, even
    dry cleaning. But across the road a homeless community epitomizes the
    Living under a tarp next to Facebook HQ: 'I don't want people to see me'
    As Waikiki moves homeless out of tourist zones, some fear perpetual
    The homeless population has dropped by 83% over the past two years since a
    sit-lie ban went into effect, but some in Hawaii fear enforcement has gone
    As Waikiki moves homeless out of tourist zones, some fear perpetual
    100-year-old San Francisco woman dies one month after losing eviction
    Iris Canada’s fight to stay in the home she had lived in for more than 50
    years became a symbol of the city’s housing crisis
    100-year-old San Francisco woman dies one month after losing eviction
      □ The tiny houses where homeless people seek shelter – in pictures
        The tiny houses where homeless people seek shelter – in pictures
      □ Tiny houses: salvation for the homeless or a dead end?
        Tiny houses: salvation for the homeless or a dead end?
      □ Entire homelessness agency could be eliminated by Trump's budget cuts
        Entire homelessness agency could be eliminated by Trump's budget cuts
      □ Mannequin sting catches suspect in Las Vegas homeless murders
        Mannequin sting catches suspect in Las Vegas homeless murders
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
