  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Under-fire Barclays chief is probably guilty of behaving like a chump
Poor Jes Staley will have to get by on just his £10,000 a day basic salary
Jes Staley at the World Economic Forum annual meeting
[ ] Jes Staley at the World Economic Forum annual meeting in Davos,
Under-fire Barclays chief is probably guilty of behaving like a chump
Poor Jes Staley will have to get by on just his £10,000 a day basic salary
Tuesday 11 April 2017 00.01 BST Last modified on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
We know that Barclays chief executive Jes Staley committed a “serious offence”
when he tried to unmask a whistleblower, and that the poor thing will now have
to get by on just his basic salary of nearly £10,000 a day when his bonus is
slashed as punishment. What we don’t know is if the Financial Conduct Authority
and the Bank of England’s Prudential Regulation Authority will go further once
The regulators’ ultimate weapon is declaring an individual not fit and proper
to be a director of the bank and therefore forcing Staley’s dismissal, although
Barclays’ share price (which had risen slightly by the close of trading) tells
you the market thinks that outcome highly unlikely.
Staley’s defence appears to be that the whistleblower was making a malicious
personal attack on a colleague, rather than anything substantive about the
bank’s operations. It’s difficult to argue that personal issues, whatever they
What Staley is probably guilty of is behaving like a bit of a chump. A streak
of hot-headedness surfaces in this story, which the experts and advisers appear
to have failed to restrain. Has Staley created a culture in which his word is
not to be questioned? Or is there another interpretation – that this is the
story of a boss who is intensely loyal to his staff? Maybe, although that’s no
defence from breaching fairly transparent rules surrounding whistleblowing.
This melodrama is worthy of a Mexican daytime soap, not the head of one of
Britain’s biggest banks. The next episode airs on 10 May, when Staley must face
shareholders at the bank’s annual general meeting. Staley will likely ride that
one out, but when the FCA/PRA final report emerges, the resolution of his
Retailers have had a rotten start to 2017. After unexpectedly perky trading
conditions late last year, life has got a lot tougher.
The latest snapshot of the sector from the British Retail Consortium and KPMG
found that sales were lower in March than they were a year earlier, the first
decline since the choppy post-Brexit vote environment last August.
To be sure, the timing of Easter played a part. Consumers tend to increase
their spending over the long bank holiday weekend, and retailers will be
expecting the sort of bounce over the coming days that they got in March last
But it is not just Easter. Three other factors also appear to be playing a
part. Firstly, consumers brought forward spending into late 2016 because they
anticipated that prices would go up this year as a result of the rising
That fear proved to be well-founded. The annual inflation rate has been rising
since the middle of last year and prices are now rising as fast as wages.
Secondly, it is now costing consumers more to fill their cars with fuel and to
heat their homes. They have less left over to spare on little treats than they
did this time last year. Impulse buying has been replaced by a more cautious
Finally, consumers appear to have decided that they would rather cut back on
spending in the high street than on eating out. Bars and restaurants are doing
It’s hard to see life getting easier for retailers any time soon. The
apprenticeship levy and the higher national minimum wage are adding to their
costs at a time when consumers are highly sensitive to prices rises. There will
be winners – Aldi and Lidl spring to mind – but plenty of losers. Larry Elliott
It has become standard practice for large companies to build ever closer links
between pay and performance in recent years, the theory being that there should
be no rewards for failure. Variable pay ought to be all the more important in
businesses whose failings end up hurting ordinary people. That’s why the half a
million pound pay packet for Southern Rail boss Charles Horton will raise
Many have found themselves missing out on jobs or getting home too late to read
their children a bedtime story due to repeated delays and cancellations on the
stricken network. If they are suffering, why shouldn’t executives suffer with
them? Of course, there is more to this than Southern’s management of the
An acrimonious and complex labour dispute over driver-only trains has weighed
heavily on Southern. But many passengers will feel that the buck must stop with
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
