  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Barclays whistleblower case sparks calls for more protection
Bank’s chief executive, Jes Staley, is under investigation for attempting to
[ ] Barclays chief executive Jes Staley is being investigated by financial
regulators after admitting trying to unmask a whistleblower. Photograph: Joe
Barclays whistleblower case sparks calls for more protection
Bank’s chief executive, Jes Staley, is under investigation for attempting to
Tuesday 11 April 2017 12.59 BST Last modified on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
Whistleblowing charities and law firms have called for companies to offer more
protection to workers who flag up internal problems after the chief executive
of Barclays attempted to track down the author of anonymous letters.
Jes Staley is being investigated by financial regulators and faces a
significant cut to his pay after admitting trying to unmask a whistleblower who
made allegations about a long-term associate he had brought to the bank.
Public Concern at Work (PCaW), a charity for whistleblowers, said there was
“much work to be done” while GoodCorporation said the Barclays saga would be a
“real test” for the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the Bank of England’s
Barclays boss used bank's security team to hunt for whistleblower
There are strict regulations in the financial services industry about
encouraging and protecting whistleblowers. This includes the senior managers
and certification regime, which is aimed at improving individual accountability
Andrew Tyrie, the chair of the House of Commons Treasury select committee,
said: “The senior managers and certification regime is supposed to ensure that
whistleblowers are protected. This is the first proper test of those rules, and
it is for the regulators to test whether Barclays had the right processes in
place. The Treasury committee will take a close interest in the regulators’
Cathy James, the chief executive of PCaW, said there had been an increase in
interest from City firms about how to draw up internal guidelines and calls to
James said: “I’m not in a position to say whether that’s good or bad news in
“Is that because of increased confidence in whistleblowing, or increased
interest from the regulator? It still remains to be seen,” she said. “There is
Last year the whistleblowing charity advised on 130 cases involving individuals
working in the financial sector, compared with 98 in 2015 and 102 in 2014. So
far this year, it has received 35 calls from the financial sector.
PCaW is working with some of the big banks and other financial firms to help
them draw up internal whistleblowing guidelines. James said new FCA rules,
including the requirement to have an internal whistleblowing champion since
last September, had contributed to the surge in interest.
However, one employment lawyer said Barclays’ refusal to sack Staley undermined
its approach to whistleblowers. Barclays has said it will send Staley a formal
written reprimand and cut his bonus but also backed him to continue as chief
Anna Birtwistle from CM Murray said: “While cutting Staley’s pay may outwardly
appear to represent a strong response from Barclays, it is difficult to
reconcile the board’s continued confidence in Staley with its stated commitment
“Fostering an open culture of disclosing wrongdoing in the workplace requires
top-down stewardship and while it may be understandable that Barclays has
backed Staley given his successes in post, the bank’s response to Staley’s
actions may give mixed messages to its employees and the wider financial
services industry about the steadfastness of its commitment to whistleblowing.”
GoodCorporation, a consultancy that advises businesses on ethics, said Staley’s
conduct could discourage others whistleblowers from speaking out.
Leon Martin, the managing director of GoodCorporation, said: “The Barclays
whistleblower scandal will be a real test for the Financial Conduct Authority
and the Prudential Regulation Authority, whose rules on whistleblowing clearly
state that a whistleblower’s confidentiality must be protected and that firms
need to create a culture that encourages employees to raise concerns about poor
“It is hard to see how an organisation whose CEO instructs his internal
security team to identify the author of a whistleblowing letter has created an
open culture whereby employees feel confident to speak out. With all that has
been said about reforming behaviour in the banking sector, it seems clear that
“Whistleblowing is an essential component of good corporate governance which
needs to be embraced at the top of an organisation. An effective board will
ensure that the right culture is in place, paying particular heed to employee
confidence in raising concerns and to monitoring the ways in which they are
dealt with. Avoiding any form or repercussion or detriment is essential.”
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
