  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Brexit blow to workers as real pay starts to fall again - business live
Pay growth was weaker than inflation in February, official figures show,
signalling a return to falling real pay and a squeeze in living standards
  •  UK inflation stays at three-year high of 2.3%
Commuters walk over London Bridge in central London. Inflation outpaced wage
growth in February, official figures are expected to show
[ ] Commuters walk over London Bridge in central London. Inflation outpaced
wage growth in February, official figures are expected to show Photograph:
Wednesday 12 April 2017 11.03 BST First published on Wednesday 12 April 2017 
  • 11.03am BST 11:03 Resolution Foundation: UK pay recovery has ended
  • 9.34am BST 09:34 Breaking: real pay fell in February
  • 9.27am BST 09:27 Sports Direct workers' rep faces 'uphill struggle', union
  • 7.40am BST 07:40 The agenda: Falling real pay and Tesco sales growth
  • 8.37am BST 08:37 FTSE rises 0.5% in early trading
  • 8.26am BST 08:26 Sports Direct names worker representative to attend board
  • 8.00am BST 08:00 Tesco reaction: healthy recovery continues
The Resolution Foundation has analysed the ONS figures and says real pay is
falling in sectors representing 40% of the workforce.
Stephen Clarke, economic analyst at the thinktank, says:
    Britain’s brief pay recovery has come to an end. Forty per cent of the
    workforce are experiencing shrinking pay packets according to the latest
    figures, in sectors ranging from accommodation to finance and the public
    sector. Many more will join them in the coming months as inflation
    continues to rise, with pay across the economy as a whole set to have
    While the National Living Wage is protecting the lowest earners from this
    squeeze, boosting wages across the rest of the economy is the big living
Taking the month of February alone (the ONS prefers to use a three-month
rolling average), regular pay growth excluding bonuses was just 1.9%, well
It was a different for those receiving a bonus however. Average total pay
including bonuses increasing by 2.9%, significantly outpacing inflation. The
bonus season tends to run from December to April according to the ONS.
The last time regular pay growth (over three months) was weaker than headline
inflation was two and a half years ago, in June-August of 2014.
At that point wages were growing by just 0.9% while inflation was 1.5%.
Regular pay growth has been falling over the last three months
Regular pay growth has been falling over the last three months
The latest figures suggest the Brexit vote in June is now starting to weigh on
The sharp fall in the value of the pound since the referendum has made goods
imported from abroad more expensive. That has started to be felt in higher shop
prices, pushing inflation up. Meanwhile wage growth is weakening.
With inflation expected to rise to 3% by summer (from 2.3% now), and no sign of
a meaningful pick up in wage growth, household finances are likely to come
Figures just out confirm the squeeze in living standards is on. Regular pay
growth (which excludes bonuses), grew by 2.2% in the three months to February.
That was lower than the 2.3% rate of inflation in February, signalling a return
Pay including bonuses was 2.3% over the three months according to the ONS data.
Meanwhile the unemployment rate held steady at 4.7%.
Sports Direct workers' rep faces 'uphill struggle', union warns
Unite has warned that Alex Balacki - the first worker representative elected to
attend Sports Direct board meetings - faces an “uphill struggle” to bring
The union says it will be a challenge to make workers’ concerns heard and to
resolve the deep-rooted problems across the business. Unite wants to see agency
workers moved onto permanent contracts without delay and has invited Balacki to
Luke Primarolo, who is leading the Sports Direct campaign for Unite said:
    Unite wishes the newest member of the Sports Direct board well and would
    like to offer to meet as soon as possible so that we can brief him on the
    We urge that he makes one of his first acts to persuade the company that
    agency workers on insecure hire-and-fire contracts are offered permanent
    We sincerely hope that the new board member will take up our invitation to
    meet. As a company appointee he faces an uphill struggle to convince the
    workforce that he will be their eyes and ears in the boardroom.
Tesco’s stock market fortunes have rapidly reversed this morning. It has
switched from being the FTSE 100’s biggest riser to its biggest faller.
The supermarket chain is down 3.1% at 189.5p. Earlier it was providing a boost
to the rest of the sector, but it is now taking down Sainsbury’s and Morrisons:
Connor Campbell, analyst at Spreadex, says that while investors are currently
focusing on the UK jobs and wages report due at 9.30am, attention is likely to
    The UK jobs report does have a challenger for market dominance this
    Wednesday: Trump. The President is set to conduct an interview on the Fox
    Business Network, one that promises to cover everything from healthcare and
    tax reform to his actions in Syria and the increasingly fractious
    All of this is catnip for investors, and may end up overshadowing the
Traders across Europe are in a positive mood so far this morning.
Tesco is leading the FTSE 100 higher, with the index up 36 points or 0.5% at
Sports Direct names worker representative to attend board meetings
Sports Direct has named the first worker representative to attend its board
meetings as the retailer attempts to address widespread criticism over its
treatment of staff and poor record on corporate governance.
Alex Balacki was the successfully elected candidate, and will attend all
scheduled meetings of the board over the next 12 months, before a new
Balacki, 30, works for Sports Direct as a store manager in Barnstaple and
started at the company 13 years ago as a casual sales assistant on Saturdays.
    I’m very proud to be chosen by my fellow members of staff to fulfil this
    important responsibility. I’d like to thank everybody who took part in the
    elections, including all of the other candidates. It’s now my role to
Mike Ashley, the founder and chief executive of Sports Direct, said:
    I’d like to be the first to congratulate Alex, who will help us to continue
    to make a positive difference by ensuring that your voice is heard in the
    I have said many times that this is a company that was built by the great
    people who work here. I am therefore delighted that the people at Sports
    Direct have voted to choose the company’s first UK elected workers’
However, not everyone is convinced that this will amount to meaningful change
at the company. Unite, Britain’s biggest union, last month described the move
Sports Direct's move to put worker on board branded 'PR exercise'
Tesco’s results were better than City analysts expected, with a 30% jump in
operating profit to £1.28bn in the year to the end of February.
Under chief executive Dave Lewis, the supermarket’s UK chain delivered its
first full year of growth since 2009-10, with like-for-like sales (at stores
open for more than a year), up 0.9%. Like other chains, Tesco has been losing
Phil Dorrell, partner at the consultancy Retail Remedy, said it was a good
result for Lewis, who is trying to push through a £3.7bn takeover of Booker,
the cash-and-carry group behind the Londis and Budgens chains.
    It’s a far cry from the £4bn Tesco earned 5 years ago but it is still a
    very healthy improvement on last years profit. The multi-pronged strategy
    adopted by Dave Lewis is working on all counts and just needs the Booker
    Tesco is a retailer with its finger on the pulse. A clear sense of
    direction and a team that is fuelling the engine will be giving the
Retail Vision’s John Ibbotson goes further, saying Tesco’s “fairytale recovery”
    Tesco’s fairy-tale recovery story continues. And at a time of cut-throat
    competition, it is all the more impressive. In his relatively short tenure,
    Dave Lewis has turned a thoroughly demoralised business into one with a
    Dave Lewis has achieved this turnaround by returning the company to the
    basics of retail: pricing to match the UK discounters, new and simplified
    product ranges, better customer service and regained customer trust in
    Tesco. He has also improved the relationship with suppliers and that’s no
European markets are expected to open higher this morning. Here is what traders
    $CAC 5109 +0.14%$IBEX 10430 +0.13%$MIB 20151 +0.21%
The agenda: Falling real pay and Tesco sales growth returns
Good morning, and welcome to our rolling coverage of the world economy, the
The Brexit-related squeeze in living standards is on, official figures on wage
Pay growth including bonuses is expected to come in at 2.2% in the three months
to February. Regular pay growth, excluding bonuses is expected to be 2.1%.
Either way, that would be below February’s inflation rate of 2.3%, signalling a
return to falling real pay for UK workers who are just about recovering living
standards after the blow dealt by the financial crisis.
After the 2008 crash, inflation outpaced pay growth for six years.
Inflation is rising as the sharp fall in the value of the pound since the
Brexit vote drives up the cost of imported goods and increasingly feeds through
The figures from the Office for National Statistics are also expected to show
the unemployment rate held steady at 4.7%. We’ll bring you all the details and
In the corporate world, the big news this morning is from Tesco. The UK’s
biggest supermarket chain has achieved its first year of sales growth in seven
Tesco profits top £1bn in first full-year sales growth for seven years
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
