  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Cinema entrepreneurs return indies to their glory days
Film fans are flocking to restored venues that offer a community feel and a
[ ] The Savoy in Heaton Moor, Stockport is one the cinemas that’s been restored
by entrepreneur Tony Mudin. Photograph: Mike Frisbee Photography
[ ] The Savoy in Heaton Moor, Stockport is one the cinemas that’s been restored
by entrepreneur Tony Mudin. Photograph: Mike Frisbee Photography
Cinema entrepreneurs return indies to their glory days
Film fans are flocking to restored venues that offer a community feel and a
Wednesday 12 April 2017 07.00 BST Last modified on Wednesday 12 April 2017 
In its previous incarnations the room above the Spar in Clapton, Hackney, was a
bingo hall, a shoe factory and a snooker hall. But in February this year the
space in the east London art deco building returned to its original glory as a
The rebirth was thanks to film fans Asher Charman and Danielle Swift. They
threw their energy into a Kickstarter campaign to revive the old single-screen
Castle Electric Theatre, which had closed its curtains in 1958 after a 45-year
Charman and Swift never envisaged becoming full-time cinema owners. The couple
organise pop-up film nights, Hot Tub Cinema and Pillow Cinema, across the
capital and were looking for a venue for an event when they stumbled upon the
empty space in Clapton. But they were so bowled over by the building it made
them reassess their plans. “It was one of the earliest cinemas ever built and
it just compelled us,” says Charman. “It was a beautiful space with a curved
ceiling and original features of the cinema. It became apparent that here was
With £57,000 raised, one year later the historic Castle Cinema drew back its
curtains once again, and screened La La Land on opening night. Charman also
injected £10,000 of his own funds into the venture, but success relied on the
Kickstarter campaign. “Crowdfunding was essential in sourcing money, but more
than money it was a powerful way of gauging interest,” he says. “It meant that
when the doors opened, we already had up to 600 loyal members.”
Cinema entrepreneur Tony Mudin is the former owner of a packaging company. His
connection to film is through his wife who has held several roles in the
industry, most recently as a scriptwriter. Mudin restored The Ritz cinema in
Belper, Derbyshire, in 2006 and The Regal in Melton Mowbray, Leicestershire, in
2013. Then a third presented itself in Heaton Moor, a suburb of Stockport.
“We were looking for cinemas to reopen and somebody mentioned The Savoy in the
local town and we thought it could be something we’d be interested in,” says
Mudin, chief executive of the parent company behind the trio of cinemas. “Local
residents were trying to rescue it and turn it into an arts centre, but they
needed funding and were busy professionals. We ended up reverting it to our
luxury experience format, and changed the seat capacity to 180 (it was
previously 460), putting in sofas and a full bar.” It opened in October 2015.
Now the business is a family affair, with Mudin’s middle son and daughter in
law running The Regal and his youngest son and other daugher in law running The
Savoy. “We enjoy the industry and it’s great to save these buildings. If
opportunities present themselves, we will look at them,” he says. “It makes
Film and television streaming services are on the rise with nearly seven in 10
Britons reporting that their household subscribes to watch live broadcast or
on-demand programming. But film fans are still devoted to the cinema
experience. At the end of 2015 there were 4,046 cinema screens, 137 more than
2014, according to the British Film Institute (BFI).
Indie cinemas account for around 350 screens. “Independent cinemas are having a
good run at the moment,” says Ben Luxford, head of UK-wide audiences at the
BFI. “If you look back at recent titles such as Moonlight, La La Land, Lion,
Elle and Viceroy’s House [arthouse films that tend to be shown at independent
cinemas] – all have delivered exceptionally well at the box office.”
Mudin believes indie cinemas aren’t in competition with online streaming.
“People have a fridge of food but still go to restaurants,” he says. “[In the
same vein] even if they are watching [movies] on Sky or Netflix, they are still
maintaining an interest in films and we play a part in that interest. Our
mission is to provide a luxurious and enjoyable experience.”
But the battle for customers means indie cinemas tend to be more than just a
screen. They need to build an enticing experience into their business plan.
Today’s cinema venues, Luxford says, are often also restaurants, cafes or bars,
or offer space for wider cultural activities such as art exhibitions.
Many also have a strong role to play in the local community. “For people
attending indies, there’s a sense of supporting the local business,” says
Charman. Rebecca Turner is one film fan won over by her local independent. She
visits The Island in Lytham Saint Annes, Lancashire, with her husband nearly
every week. “We love the fact it’s not a big chain,” she says. “It feels like
we’re supporting local enterprise, and it’s cheaper than going to the big
Phil Clapp, chief executive of the UK Cinema Association, is hopeful that indie
cinemas can continue to pull in the crowds. “There’s no reason not to remain
optimistic as signs show that people will continue to respond to an immersive,
and increasingly personalised, out-of-home experience,” he says.
The organisation estimates that the UK could see about 100 new cinema sites in
the next five years, with a good proportion being independents.
After successfully restoring a local screen, what tips can Charman share with
other budding cinema saviours? “It’s important to try and play content that
appeals to a broad audience. Try and capture something for everyone.”
Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more
advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
