  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Why won’t the Co-op Bank believe me when I say I’m 15?
I needed to get some money to my father by phone but it refused because of my
Voice recognition? When I phoned the Co-op it was impossible to persuade them I
[ ] Voice recognition? When I phoned the Co-op it was impossible to persuade
Why won’t the Co-op Bank believe me when I say I’m 15?
I needed to get some money to my father by phone but it refused because of my
I’m writing about a ludicrous issue I’ve had with The Co-operative Bank. I
tried to transfer £150 to my father by phone, which I needed to do before the
weekend. It proceeded to ask an array of security questions, which I answered,
and kept me on hold for an hour before telling me that I wasn’t 15 (I most
When my dad asked what was going on, it refused him access to a manager, and
the staff member wouldn’t even give his name. Because of the branches being
closed all weekend I have essentially been refused access to my money. The bank
offered me a derisory £25 as a goodwill payment but I think their behaviour
We can understand your frustration – particularly given how you appear to be
handling your finances independently – but (dare we say) we think perhaps you
have been over sensitive about the security questions. Clearly it is difficult
to determine someone’s age given voice changes around puberty. We contacted the
Co-operative Bank which double-checked its records and said that on the call
you correctly answered the normal security questions followed by some
additional ones. The adviser said you appeared to sound a little older than
your age and the call was transferred to somebody else. They went on to ask the
same questions again, only to refer you to your branch.
The Co-op said it had investigated your complaint and put your findings in
writing. It stressed the importance of speaking to the correct customer, which
involves a clear “process” if there are any concerns. However, as it believes
this has let you down, and as it has meant extra trips to withdraw funds from
the cash machine and delayed your purchase, it has agreed to uphold your
complaint. The Co-op has given feedback to the relevant team and is considering
reviewing it and looking at alternatives. It has also arranged for £50 to be
paid into your account as a way of saying sorry. You balked at this offer too,
We welcome letters but cannot answer individually. Email us at 
consumer.champions@theguardian.com or write to Consumer Champions, Money, the
Guardian, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. Please include a daytime phone number
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
