  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Corkscrew thinking won the war. Here's how to use it in business
To mark Winston Churchill Day on 9 April, we celebrate the thinking that helped
[ ] Winston Churchill established the Special Operations Executive with people
who tackled problems in an innovative way. Photograph: PA Wire
Corkscrew thinking won the war. Here's how to use it in business
To mark Winston Churchill Day on 9 April, we celebrate the thinking that helped
Friday 7 April 2017 07.00 BST Last modified on Friday 7 April 2017 09.35 BST
During the second world war Winston Churchill declared a need for corkscrew
thinkers – people with the ability to break away from the traditional linear
Without these individuals, Churchill believed that neither side would win the
war because everyone was thinking in the same way: the enemy’s next move would
    Entrepreneurs are the perfect modern-day corkscrew thinkers
What followed was the creation of a number of special divisions. Alan Turing
headed up the group who cracked the enigma code. Another counter-intelligence
team devised the famous Operation Mincemeat. And the Special Operations
Executive controlled a number of covert resistance units that would have been
activated if Germany had invaded Britain. The department was unofficially known
as the Ministry of Ungentlemanly Warfare or Churchill’s Secret Army.
When Churchill talked about corkscrew thinkers, he was referring to individuals
who possess creative problem-solving, initiative, leadership and emotional
intelligence skills. Individuals who are able to look at problems in the world
Jump forward 65 years and these skills have never been more desirable or in
demand. But our education system, which was designed in response to an
industrialised Britain, is one that requires and promotes standardisation. Many
students today believe all you need to be successful is to reach an answer that
has been predetermined as correct. In other words, everyone is taught to think
Entrepreneurs are the perfect modern-day corkscrew thinkers. They’re people who
aren’t afraid to take risks, step out of their comfort zones and challenge the
status quo. They champion creativity and imagination. They have the courage to
push traditional boundaries, and realise it’s worth investing the time to find
Churchill’s theory – that as soon as you starting thinking in the same way as
everyone else, you lose your advantage – still rings true today. But how do you
encourage and engage corkscrew thinking in your own business? Here are our
Secrets to business survival: 'always look at new ways to innovate'
Try to not apply strict time frames to creative processes. Allow more time than
you think you’ll need. Often the first idea you think of won’t be the best and
it’s worth investing the time to explore other available options. The danger of
rushing creativity is that you are likely to reach the most obvious solution,
which may get lost in the crowd – or worse, be worked on by your competitors
Business people are often wary of talking about their ideas for fear that
someone might steal them. But most of the time, even if someone does really
like your idea, they’re unlikely to have the time, resources or passion to
pursue it. There is great value in explaining your idea to people who aren’t
friends or family. Not only does it allow you to hone your pitch but their
Those who succeed are brave enough to take a leap of faith every now and again.
That doesn’t mean being flippant with your decision making, but if you’ve been
working hard and thinking smart, have faith in your business and yourself. If
you don’t back yourself, how can you expect anyone else to do so?
Failure is as much a part of the business path as success – and it’s likely you
will experience more of the former before arriving at the latter. No matter how
carefully you plan, there will always be scenarios you can’t control. When
failure happens, use the experience to reflect on why it happened, what you can
learn from it and what you would do differently next time. Don’t underestimate
Much in the same way that magpies collect shiny objects, look around at what
inspires you and collect nuggets that might grow into interesting ideas. Accept
that all inspiration is an evolution of a previous idea. By taking the time to
think about and collect what you love, you are more likely to strike upon an
Neil Finnie is the founder and CEO of Corkscrew Experienceships.
Sign up to become a member of the Guardian Small Business Network here for more
advice, insight and best practice direct to your inbox.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
