  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
It took four months for me to receive my money back after the station machine
[ ] Great Western: not conducting its ticket refund well. Photograph: Joel
It took four months for me to receive my money back after the station machine
Wednesday 12 April 2017 07.00 BST Last modified on Wednesday 12 April 2017 
I booked online two return train tickets from London to Exeter. When I went to
collect them the station machine didn’t recognise my reference number. Nor did
the ticket office computer. I was advised to ring Great Western. Ten minutes
before departure I was still queuing on its automated system so gave up and
found a GWR official on the concourse. He told me my only option was to buy two
singles to Exeter at a cost of £73 and to try to resolve the issue of the
I emailed GWR from the train and was told my case would be dealt with within
six weeks unless I complained via Facebook. Over Facebook an operative
confirmed there had been a mistake with my ticket but there was nothing she
could do, other than offer a refund at some unspecified future date and £25 of
vouchers (which can’t be used for online bookings) as a goodwill gesture.
Station staff, on hearing my story, let me travel back to London without buying
another ticket. Back home I emailed again and received a reply nearly a month
later asking for proof of purchase of the replacement ticket. I supplied this
and heard nothing for another month. I tried Facebook again and was told to
ring the helpline, which involved a 30-minute wait. I was promised a refund and
goodwill vouchers within 28 days – they didn’t come. Twice more I phoned and
was given the same assurance and twice more nothing happened. The two hours
I’ve spent waiting on and chatting to the helpline used up all of my iPhone
minutes for the month. Three days ago I received a letter from GWR to say that
I would be receiving at some unspecified future date a refund of only £50. I’m
GWR blames improvements to its customer services for your four-month saga.
“We’ve recently moved our contact centre to a new site, bringing all our
customer service work back to the UK, and the move means some detailed
responses are taking longer than we would like,” a spokesperson says. “We are
working with our new team to improve our response rates.” You have now been
refunded the £73 and the vouchers have been turned into a more useful £50
If you need help email Anna Tims at your.problems@observer.co.uk or write to
Your Problems, The Observer, Kings Place, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. Include
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
