  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
The Guardian - Back to home browse all sections close
It will be a breeze to stay as cool as a cucumber in these properties, located
    Despite its purpose as a pumping station, this was built like a palace in
    the urban village of Chiswick, west London, and over a century on, you have
    to pay a royal price for a berth here. Not that there’s anything palatial
    about the accommodation. For £675,000 you get a two-bedroom duplex on the
    fourth and fifth floors, but the service charges include security gates and
    a porter to keep commoners at bay. The views over the Thames from the
    wraparound balcony are positively aristocratic. Savills, 020 8987 5550
    You might have to live in the car for a bit while you pay off the mortgage
    through holiday lets, but when that’s done you have front row seats of the
    sailing on the Solent from the balconies and terrace. Well, almost front
    row. A line of new homes got the best pitch on the shore and you have to
    peer over their roofs for the action. There is underfloor heating in the
    five bedrooms and reception rooms, but only the living area and master
    suite get the air conditioning. Guide price: £599,950. Onthemarket.com,
    This 16th-century palace perched on a hilltop in the city was once owned by
    royal courtiers and has been segmented into 21 flats. Renaissance luxury
    has being adapted for modern pampering, so amid the ornate high ceilings
    and tall windows will be air conditioning, en suites, secure parking and,
    for the richer residents, a private swimming pool. Some of the terraces
    overlook the river and the multi-coloured old town cascading down the
    hillside. Other flats are less favoured with a square of lawn between high
    walls. Prices start at £616,000. Athena Advisers, 020 74714 500
    Ditch the studio flat in Hounslow and, for the same price, sit out Brexit
    in a three-bedroom villa on the Costa Blanca. Porcelain floor tiles and air
    conditioning should do battle with the Spanish heat. But if that battle is
    lost you can tip into the pool in the communal palm-fringed gardens. Each
    house in this gated, yet-to-be development has an underground parking slot
    and a garden or rooftop solarium. Cost: £191,144. Sequre International,
    The island lives up to its name, being accessible only by private boat.
    From your private jetty you can fish in the Indian River and watch the
    sunset up on the balcony. It’s a chalet ambience inside, with wooden
    steeply pitched walls. Tall occupants of the two bedrooms may endure a
    painful levee given the restricted head height. Asking price: £260,000.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
