  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
'The journey is nothing but extraordinary' – Confessions of a Startup
In our last podcast of the series, entrepreneurs at our Confessions of a
Startup seminar shared their tales of overcoming obstacles while starting a
business. They agreed it’s important to have people around who support your
Emma Sheppard, journalist and content coordinator, Guardian Small Business
Network;Isabella Lane, co-founder of Smarter Applications; Rich Pleeth, founder
Presented by Coco Khan and produced by Rowan Slaney
Subscribe and review on iTunes, Soundcloud & Mixcloud and join the discussion
On 6 March, 50 entrepreneurs attended a seminar hosted by the Guardian Small
Business Network to discuss pushing through the challenges that come with
Our keynote speaker for the evening was Efe Çakarel, founder of MUBI, who said
it took him two years to launch the platform and a further four years to find a
workable business model. During that time, he nearly ran out of money, had to
let good people go, and cut his own salary down to zero. “You do whatever you
The panel discussion included Isabella Lane, co-founder of Smarter
Applications; Rich Pleeth, who started the app SUP; and Emily Forbes, owner of
Lane said recent political events have taught her not to leave the fate of her
business in someone else’s hands. “It’s exciting [when you get an
opportunity],” she explained. “But we’re trying to scale back our egos and be
Pleeth had to close his company SUP after 18 months, but he said he learned so
much from failure. “It’s such a negative word,” he added. “But we need to be
realistic about starting a business ... [a large number fail] in their first
Forbes advised the entrepreneurs present to trust their guts and have faith.
“Every time I’ve freaked out, my gut has always been right,” she said.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
