  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Corbyn attacks M&S and other big firms over late supplier payments
Corporations rebut claims by party leader that they are profiting from
[ ] Jeremy Corbyn said late payments to suppliers were causing thousands to go
Corbyn attacks M&S and other big firms over late supplier payments
Corporations rebut claims by party leader that they are profiting from
Tuesday 11 April 2017 14.31 BST First published on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
Jeremy Corbyn has said a Labour government would “declare war” on corporations
that fail to pay suppliers on time, although the companies he singled out, such
The Labour leader accused large companies, including E.ON, Capita and the BT
group, of profiting from the late payments as he vowed to ease regulations on
small businesses. But credit check agency Experian said its data should not be
seen as a barometer of how fast a company pays its suppliers.
“Cash is king for any business, and big companies are managing their cash by
borrowing – interest free – from their suppliers,” the Labour leader told a
“Some of the biggest names in business are holding cash piles that don’t
actually belong to them. It’s a national scandal. And it’s stopping businesses
from growing and causing thousands to go bust every year. It kills jobs and
Labour said Corbyn’s attack on the corporations was based on analysing data
from current Experian credit reports, which identified payment beyond terms,
In the figures quoted by Labour, M&S went 72 days beyond terms, Capita 82 days
and the National Grid as long as 119 days. Others mentioned by Corbyn were 89
Experian said the figures, taken from their report, said the figures only
relate to invoices which are settled late and do not take into consideration
“The data relates to how late a business can expect any late payments to be,
and not the company’s overall track record on the payment of suppliers,” a
spokesman said. “It is intended for indicative purposes only, to inform
specific business decisions, and we would not recommend it is used as an
overall barometer of how a company pays suppliers.”
Almost all the companies named by Corbyn, including M&S, Capita and BT Group,
disputed the figures in the speech. An M&S spokesperson said: “We don’t
recognise these numbers at all. Over 99% of our supplier invoices are paid on
time and we are signatories to the prompt payment code.”
A BT spokesman said the company spent £9.3bn with UK suppliers last year, 40%
of which went to small businesses. “During 2015/16 the average number of days
between BT being invoiced and payment to UK suppliers was 54 days, well below
the figures claimed in this report, which we do not recognise,” the spokesman
Capita said it did not recognise the figures either and said 90% of invoices
were paid within 30 days of receipt. A National Grid spokesman said the company
was a signatory to the prompt payment code and “consistently pay at least 90%
Vodafone said it paid SME suppliers 45 days on average from the invoice date.
“We pay 90% of our invoices on time and, where this is not achieved, the most
significant factor is receiving the invoices late from the supplier,” a
Small business minister: late payments are an outrage
The FSB has estimated that prompt payments to suppliers could prevent 50,000
Any company bidding for public-sector contracts with a future Labour government
would have to pay its own suppliers within 30 days, Corbyn said on Tuesday, and
Labour would consider creating a binding arbitration system, with fines for
The Labour leader pledged not to increase the corporation tax rate for small
businesses and to scrap quarterly reporting for businesses with turnover of
less than £83,000, calling it “a burden, a distraction, that will hold
He said large corporations were “privileged” by the government in their tax
affairs over ordinary people or small businesses. He joked about his own tax
return mishap, where he was fined for a late payment, calling it a “donation”
“No one likes paying tax. We don’t wake up in the morning thinking, ‘Oh, I
really must pay some more tax today’. But most of us know that taxes are
essential to a civilised society and a successful economy,” he said. “So most
of us play by the rules. We do our tax returns, as you know, mine seems to
attract more attention than most but that’s OK, transparency is important.”
Journalist shouted down at Corbyn press conference – video
Corbyn has been repeatedly criticised by Theresa May for Labour’s pledge to
borrow £500bn for investments, including in regional investment banks.
The party has struggled to rebuild trust in its economic credibility, with the
latest Observer/Opinium poll showing 44% trust May and her chancellor, Philip
Hammond, to run the economy, while just 15% say Corbyn and the shadow
Amanda Milling, a Conservative member of the Commons business, energy and
industrial strategy select committee, said Labour’s pledge to borrow to invest
£500bn would “crash the economy, just like they did last time”.
In remarks on Tuesday that anticipated some of the criticism, Corbyn said: “The
prime minister frequently accuses me of wanting to bankrupt Britain by
borrowing money to fund investment. But, as every business person knows, there
is a world of difference between borrowing for capital spending and borrowing
to fund the payroll and day to day trading or service delivery.
“The risk of bankruptcy comes not when you borrow to invest in projects that
will deliver growth but when you give tax breaks to big companies and the
wealthy when you don’t have enough money to run public services.”
    Business chiefs tell chancellor: reform business rates now to avert high
    Small firms and retailers urge Philip Hammond to ‘fundamentally reform’
    tax, as live music venues add to concerns of potential closures
    Business chiefs tell chancellor: reform business rates now to avert high
    Lessons of an entrepreneur: 'the first rule of business is to stay in
    At our second confessions event, startup entrepreneurs discussed the
    challenges they have faced in business and overcoming adversity
    Lessons of an entrepreneur: 'the first rule of business is to stay in
    Small businesses and self-employed hit by large tax rises in the
    Businesses accuse chancellor of ignoring rate concerns in budget
    Philip Hammond criticised as he unveils measures including cap on increase
    in rates for companies losing small business relief
    Businesses accuse chancellor of ignoring rate concerns in budget
      □ Small firms' confidence sinks to lowest level for four years over
        Small firms' confidence sinks to lowest level for four years over
      □ Theresa May tells big business advisers: no more advice please
        Theresa May tells big business advisers: no more advice please
      □ Small building firms struggle to find land for homes, research shows
        Small building firms struggle to find land for homes, research shows
      □ Outraged small firms hit out at Liam Fox’s ‘fat and lazy’ jibe
        Outraged small firms hit out at Liam Fox’s ‘fat and lazy’ jibe
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
