  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
UK inflation steady at 2.3% in March - as it happened
UK consumer price index above Bank of England’s 2% target again, putting
[ ] Bank of England governor Mark Carney. Photograph: Kirsty Wigglesworth/AFP/
Tuesday 11 April 2017 14.28 BST First published on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
  • 11.08am BST 11:08 UK house prices rise in February but London slows down
  • 10.26am BST 10:26 Bad news for fans of crisp sandwiches
  • 10.21am BST 10:21 German economic sentiment improves
  • 9.49am BST 09:49 Reaction to inflation figures
  • 9.31am BST 09:31 UK inflation unchanged at 2.3%
  • 9.13am BST 09:13 Barclays: Jes Staley's actions "amazing", says Standard
  • 8.42am BST 08:42 JD Sports shares hit new peak after record profits
UK inflation was flat, with the consumer price index coming in at 2.3% in March
That was still the highest level for more than three years, and raises the
question of whether the Bank of England should raise interest rates.
But with wage growth slowing, real incomes are being hit.
UK house prices rose by 5.8% in February but London saw its slowest growth
Elsewhere a leading investment group has described the actions of Barclays boss
Jes Staley in trying to unmask a whistleblower as “amazing” in the light of
attempts to encourage people with concerns to come forward.
German economic sentiment improved in April but eurozone industrial production
On that note, it’s time to close for the day. Thanks for all your comments, and
The pound is currently up 0.25% at $1.2441, having been as high as $1.2445 and
as low as $1.2404. FXTM research analyst Lukman Otunuga said:
    Sterling was volatile on Tuesday, with prices oscillating between losses
    and gains after markets digested the UK’s steady 2.3% inflation figure for
    March, which was the highest level since September 2013. The ongoing
    currency weakness created by Brexit, coupled with rising oil prices has
    elevated inflation above the Bank of England’s 2% target, with speculation
    mounting over CPI following its positive trajectory this quarter. Although
    the immediate market reaction to March’s headline CPI reading was
    noticeably bullish, gains may be relinquished when participants start to
    re-evaluate the impact it may have on the UK economy. With inflation still
    above average earning there is a threat of consumer spending taking a hit,
    which could spark concerns over the longevity of the UK’s consumer-fuelled
Should the Bank of England raise interest rates? The answer is complicated,
    It seems so obvious. The Bank of England sets interest rates to hit the
    government’s 2% inflation target. Inflation is currently 2.3% and – despite
    holding steady in March – is certain to go higher over the coming months.
    Higher borrowing costs choke off inflationary pressure. Therefore interest
    In reality, it is a bit more complicated than that. The first thing the
    nine members of the Bank’s monetary policy committee have to decide is
    whether the above-target inflation seen in the last couple of months is a
    temporary blip. It’s quite clear it isn’t. Food is going up, energy
    companies are raising their tariffs, retailers are passing on the higher
    Last month’s inflation figure was flattered by the timing of Easter, which
    led to a sharp fall in the annual cost of air fares. That one-off factor
    will be reversed in April. The question is not whether inflation will
    continue rising in 2017 but how high it will go. At least to 3% is the
    The next thing for the MPC to consider is whether there is a risk of
    inflation becoming entrenched. That would happen if rising prices led to
    workers successfully negotiating higher wages to compensate them for the
    hit to living standards. There seems little sign that inflation will feed
Inflation is only going one way. Let's hope interest rates don't follow | Larry
    Rising food and clothing prices kept Britain’s inflation rate at its
    highest level for more than three years last month, putting household
    budgets under pressure as the Brexit effect on the pound worked its way
    Official figures put inflation on the consumer prices index (CPI) at 2.3%
    for the second month running in March, in line with economists’ forecasts,
    as food prices rose at the fastest pace for three years, increasing 1.2% on
    Economists said inflation was likely to push higher in April and they
    warned the rising costs of essentials such as groceries were already eating
    into households’ budgets and leaving them with less cash to spend on other
    items. Reports from retailers suggest sales have slowed in recent months.
    “Today’s release confirms our expectations that 2017 will see the end of
    the consumer spending boom which has driven economic growth in recent
    years,” said Nina Skero at the consultancy the Centre for Economics and
    “With the prices of essentials such as housing costs, food and transport on
    the rise, less money will be left over for discretionary spending. This is
    especially true given that wage growth is unlikely to keep up with the
    $FTSE enjoying itself today, don't forget April is historically a strong
    month (ave. return 1.8% over last 20 yrs): pic.twitter.com/HEz0qZ4JLD
With the pound now fairly flat against the dollar in the wake of the inflation
numbers, the FTSE 100 is pretty buoyant, up 44 points or 0.6%.
The host of overseas earners in the UK’s leading index are supported by a
weaker sterling, and the fact the currency has moved no higher has been taken
positively by investors. Connor Campbell at Spreadex said:
    While the pound was clearly disappointed that the CPI didn’t grow any
    further in March, the fact that it avoided the dip forecast by analysts
    meant the currency’s losses weren’t too pronounced.
    Against the euro sterling fell 0.2%, shuffling under 1.17 in the process;
    against the dollar, however, the pound sat flat, keeping its head just
    above 1.24. Though the pound didn’t have an aggressively sour reaction to
    the inflation figure, the fact that it didn’t move any higher was enough to
    lift the FTSE, which surged more than half a percent to hit a 3 week high.
    The Eurozone indices, on the other hand, couldn’t shake their negative
    open, the DAX and CAC slipping 0.3% and 0.1% respectively. The region was
    aided, however, by a pair of better than expected ZEW economic sentiment
    readings; the German figure came in at a 20 month high of 19.5, while the
UK house prices rise in February but London slows down
UK house prices rose by 5.8% year on year in February compared to 5.3% the
previous month, with London showing the slowest increase since April 2012 at
The UK figure is still below the average annual house price growth of 7.3% seen
    The main contribution to the increase in UK house prices came from England,
    where house prices increased by 6.3% over the year to February 2017, with
    the average price in England now £234,000. Wales saw house prices increase
    by 1.8% over the last 12 months to stand at £145,000. In Scotland, the
    average price increased by 3.1% over the year to stand at £139,000. The
    average price in Northern Ireland currently stands at £125,000, an increase
    House prices in Feb were up just 3.7% y/y in London vs 6% in the rest of
    the UK. Prices haven't underperformed in the capital since Aug 09:
The forthcoming French presidential election is causing some tremors for the
    Investors are showing increasing concern before the French presidential
    elections https://t.co/kz0ZGjav4q pic.twitter.com/zbdlq0igts
    The single currency has held up so far but investors are becoming
    particularly worried ahead of April 23rd (the first round of the French
Back with UK inflation, and there is one category of consumer who is being
particularly hard hit by price rises, points out Laith Khalaf, senior analyst
    In March food inflation really took off, which suggests the supermarkets
    are now starting to pass rising import costs onto consumers.
    Crisps and margarine saw particularly steep price rises, not good news for
    The inflationary squeeze that’s coming is going to mean consumers have to
    spend more at the check outs and petrol pumps, and that reduces their
    capacity to fund discretionary spending. It also reduces people’s
    propensity to save, which is particularly worrying at a time when the UK’s
    savings ratio is at its lowest level since the 1960s, and retirement is
    costlier than ever because of gains in life expectancy.
Away from UK inflation, and German consumers remain confident it seems.
The ZEW Institute’s economic sentiment index came in at 19.5 in April compared
to 12.8 the previous month and expectations of a figure of 14. This was the
highest level since August 2015. ZEW president Achim Wambach said:
    Though the long-term average as calculated from the beginning of the survey
    (December 1991) is yet to be beaten, these results are comparable to the
    expectations prior to the Brexit vote in June 2016.
    The German economic situation has proved fairly robust in the first
    quarter. This is highlighted by the solid figures for growth in industrial
    production, the construction sector and retail sales from February. In
    addition, the consistently high labour demand has boosted private
    The financial market experts expect this positive development to continue.
However there have also been some disappointing eurozone industrial production
    #Eurozone #industrial production unexepctedly dipped 0.3% m/m in Feb (+0.3%
    in Jan) as limited by 4.7% drop in energy output; up 1.2% y/y
UK inflation stayed at 2.3% year on year in March, which when compared to wage
growth (which is likely to slow in data released tomorrow), means real incomes
A major driver of the recent pick-up in inflation has been food prices. Having
been depressed for multiple years by a fierce price war, supermarket prices
have been increasing fairly rapidly as the near-20% depreciation in sterling
since November 2015 pushes up costs. At 1.2%, the annual rate of growth in food
& non-alcoholic drink prices is the highest since early 2014.
That said, there was a risk that last year’s early Easter provided a temporary
drag on today’s data, as items such as air fares would have been lower than had
there been a holiday weekend. But at first glance, this effect appears to be
Overall, we think that the effect of the weaker pound and higher fuel costs
will drive inflation above 3% in the second half of this year...In tomorrow’s
jobs report, we expect wage growth (excluding bonuses) to fall back to 2%
following some particularly weak “single month” figures recently. In real
terms, that means that disposable incomes will be falling, and we are seeing
Suren Thiru, Head of Economics at the British Chambers of Commerce:
The continued elevation in costs at the factory gate suggests that consumer
prices are likely to resume their upward trend in the coming months.
Businesses say they are facing an uphill struggle to absorb the increasing cost
of imports – a task made more difficult by the raft of additional upfront costs
imposed on businesses at the start of the new tax year. As a result, the rising
price of imported raw materials are expected to increasingly filter through
into higher prices, stifling consumer spending, a key driver of UK growth.
It is probable that rising inflation helped weaken UK GDP growth in the first
quarter of 2017, with growth likely to have slowed to 0.4%, from 0.7% in the
previous quarter. The UK’s growth prospects are expected to remain subdued over
the near term, as higher inflation continues to squeeze consumers and
Against this backdrop, it is vital that government does more to ease the cost
pressures facing firms by tackling the burden of upfront costs and taxes
associated with doing business in the UK. The MPC must also continue to ‘look
through’ the expected rises in inflation and opt for an extended period of
monetary stability. This will help businesses to continue to invest, recruit
Ian Kernohan, Economist at Royal London Asset Management:
The later date of Easter this year will have held back prices in March, thanks
to the lower air fares. However, while the impact of rising oil prices last
year is now fading, the full impact of sterling’s devaluation is still feeding
through. We would expect the air fare effect to reverse next month, and CPI to
And here’s the TUC on the inflation figures. General Secretary Frances O’Grady
    Rising prices and sluggish pay increases mean that real earnings growth has
    now ground to a halt. Without government action, another living standards
    We urgently need more investment in skills and infrastructure to build
    strong foundations for better paid jobs. And it’s time to scrap the pay
    restrictions hitting midwives, teachers and other public servants.
Maike Currie, investment director for personal investing at Fidelity
Retail sales figures from the British Retail Consortium released overnight
showed that the rise in inflation is already starting to bite, with non-food
high street sales suffering the worst fall in nearly six years. With price
rises outstripping wages, we are getting progressively poorer each month.
Unsurprisingly, consumers are choosing to instead focus their spending on
essential items like food and fuel. Changing shopping habits and a fall in
spending should flash amber warning lights for an economy reliant on confident
Rising inflation also has implications for savers, investors and retirees as it
erodes the spending power of future interest and dividend payments and eats
Inflation never looks like a problem, until suddenly it is a big problem. Once
pricing pressures become entrenched, consumers’ feel the pain, companies don’t
Inflation remained above the two percent mark in March, stoking fears that
consumer spending – the engine room of the UK economy – could begin to slip.
Theresa May will be concerned that the sharp fall in sterling over recent
months, combined with rising food and fuel costs, is beginning to squeeze
But of even greater concern is the impact this could have on the UK economy
during Brexit negotiations. With inflation now beyond the Bank of England’s
target, it would not be a surprise to see interest rates hiked sooner rather
The UK’s consumer price index remains some way above the Bank of England’s 2%
target, though Mark Carney and Co may be somewhat relieved to see that prices
It marks temporary respite from soaring inflation following the post-Brexit
collapse of the pound, with a late Easter and fuel prices being partly
Despite March’s plateau, inflation could pick up again as we head into the
second half of 2017, and could even exceed 3% by the summer. Whether that
forces the MPC’s hand is still unsure, though - many will want to see
unemployment down and wage growth markedly up before an interest rate hike.
With inflation surpassing the Bank of England’s target for a second month
running savers will begin to feel the pinch as inflation erodes the value of
their hard earned cash and this poses a particular threat to pensioner income.
Howard Archer, chief European and UK economist at IHS Markit:
Some respite for consumers – and the Bank of England – as consumer price
inflation stabilized at 2.3% in March after rising sharply from 0.9% in
Unfortunately though, it is odds-on that this will prove only a temporary
respite on the inflation front. Inflation was held down in March by
Easter-related pricing distortions. Specifically, Easter related price hikes
(notably on air and sea transport, package holidays, hotels) occurred in March
Consumers are facing a serious squeeze as higher inflation is occurring in
tandem with muted earnings growth - and this looks set to bite even harder over
It is evident that the Bank of England has recently become more concerned about
the potential inflation overshoot but we still expect interest rates to remain
at 0.25% through 2017 and 2018 at least. We suspect that any Bank of England
temptation to raise interest rates will be tempered by mounting evidence of a
slowing UK economy as consumers rein in their spending and business caution
mounts. Likely ongoing muted earnings growth is also seen encouraging the Bank
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
