  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Government launches ‘market-leading’ savings account
National Savings & Investment bond will pay 2.2% interest so long as you are
[ ] The chancellor, Philip Hammond, first announced the new three-year bond in
his November 2016 autumn statement. Photograph: Will Oliver/EPA
Government launches ‘market-leading’ savings account
National Savings & Investment bond will pay 2.2% interest so long as you are
Tuesday 11 April 2017 16.25 BST Last modified on Wednesday 12 April 2017 
Five months after it was first announced, a new “market-leading”,
government-backed savings bond paying 2.2% interest has gone on sale.
The new bond is likely to prove popular with savers desperate for a better
return on their cash, but - in what appeared to be a slightly unfortunate bit
of timing - the launch on Tuesday coincided with official confirmation that UK
consumer price inflation is running at 2.3%. With inflation set to move even
higher over the coming months, those putting money into the new bond may well
That said, 2.2% is still the best rate currently available for those willing
and able to tie up their money for three years. Even if you are happy to tie up
your cash for five years, the very best rate on the market – from Ikano Bank –
The new three-year bond – its official name is the Investment Guaranteed Growth
Bond – was first announced by the chancellor, Philip Hammond, in his November
2016 autumn statement. It is being offered by National Savings & Investments
(NS&I), is open to anyone aged 16 or over and has a minimum investment limit of
However, some people may be disappointed to learn that this is an online-only
investment. NS&I said: “This bond is only suitable for customers who are happy
to apply for and manage their investment online. If you prefer to use phone or
It is on sale exclusively at nsandi.com for 12 months, until 10 April 2018, and
when you apply you will need to make payment using a UK debit card.
National Savings will calculate the interest daily and add it to your bond on
each anniversary of investment. A £3,000 deposit would be worth £3,202.39 at
the end of the three-year term. NS&I will add your interest without deducting
any tax. However, the interest is taxable, so it will count towards your
You are allowed to cash in all or part of your bond before the three years are
up, but if you do, NS&I will deduct a penalty equal to 90 days’ interest on the
amount you cash in (you will need to keep a balance of at least £100 to keep
your bond open). At the end of the term you can cash in with no penalty, and
you will be contacted about a month before, to let you know your options.
Savers can switch their money from another NS&I account into the new bond if
they wish, though they will need to download a form as NS&I doesn’t currently
As this is online only, there will be no paper documents sent out, but people
will be able to log in to view and manage their investment.
The Treasury said the new product “will provide a valuable boost for savers who
have been affected by low interest rates”, pointing out that the average
three-year, fixed-rate bond pays 1.24%. However, there are three-year bonds
paying almost as much as the new NS&I one: Secure Trust Bank is offering a rate
of 2%, with Vanquis Bank Savings not far behind at 1.9%.
Anna Bowes at the Savingschampion.co.uk website said many savers will
disappointed that state-owned NS&I, which once offered its products via the
Post Office network, is now restricting this account to internet users only.
“This could cut off access for those savers most in need of improved rates,
including elderly pensioners who do not wish to use the internet,” she added.
Some economists have predicted that inflation will reach 3% this year, though
it is clearly harder to predict what will happen over the three-year term of
the bond. Adrian Lowcock at the investment firm Architas said: “It does offer a
market-leading yield with the best security of any savings product, and may
suit those who don’t want to take any risk or believe inflation will fall
Andrew Hagger at the financial website MoneyComms.co.uk said that the chance to
earn 2.2% in today’s depressed savings market may look appealing at first
glance, but it’s not that generous in the scheme of things. “With the maximum
balance set at just £3,000 and having to lock your cash away for three years,
it’s scant reward for savers who have had to endure rock-bottom rates at the
expense of borrowers for far too long. For example, compared with the 2%
best-buy deal from Secure Trust Bank, the NS&I bond will deliver a mere £6
That said, it will no doubt prove popular, particularly as some of the
high-interest current accounts have had their rates slashed or conditions
imposed. For example, Tesco Bank’s account pays an attractive 3% on balances of
up to £3,000 and reopened to new applicants last week, but investors are now
required to pay at least £750 into their account each month and have at least
    UK households’ savings fall to record low in warning sign for economy
    Figures suggest people are increasingly dipping into their savings as
    UK households’ savings fall to record low in warning sign for economy
    Lifetime Isa: the best plan for self-employed savers?
    The lifetime Isa, launching this week, has been hailed as ‘free money’, but
    is it the answer for self-employed people saving for retirement?
    Lifetime Isa: the best plan for self-employed savers?
    Bonds, Isas and pensions: budget measures that affect consumers
    Measures include a 2.2% savings bond, a crackdown on subscription traps and
    Bonds, Isas and pensions: budget measures that affect consumers
    The cut to share dividends from next year looks set to revitalise Isa
    saving, and the government has raised the allowance from £15,240 per person
      □ One in four UK families have less than £95 in savings, report finds
        One in four UK families have less than £95 in savings, report finds
      □ Savers need a balancing act to beat inflation
        Savers need a balancing act to beat inflation
      □ A new Isa is offering tax-free returns of 12% – so what’s the catch?
        A new Isa is offering tax-free returns of 12% – so what’s the catch?
      □ NS&I bond raises hopes of greater savings competition
        NS&I bond raises hopes of greater savings competition
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
