  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
NatWest banking chief executive Les Matheson – follow it live!
Ever wanted to grill a banking boss? Les Matheson is in charge of personal and
business banking at NatWest parent company RBS, and he’ll be here to answer as
many of your questions on Wednesday morning as he can. So ask away …
[ ] Les Matheson from NatWest will be online to answer your questions on
Wednesday 12 April 2017 11.19 BST First published on Tuesday 11 April 2017 
  • 10.11am BST 10:11 Post your questions for Les Matheson
How do you think Natwest will stay competitive in a world of open banking where
fintech firms are disrupting the market? They don’t have the legacy systems,
politics or bureaucracy and can build new functionality in a fraction of the
time it would take a big firm like yours. I’ve banked with Natwest for 20 years
but will be leaving you for Monzo later this year, and I’m sure I won’t be the
Les says: We are also developing and introducing new systems. We are improving
our legacy systems all the time. Our mobile app runs off a system that is one
of the latest available. We’re also introducing security systems that can
protect all of our underlying processes for customers. We are investing more
than £1bn over the coming year in technology, security and innovation.
Why do you make people log on to your website to do some tasks eg make a
payment of over £250 to a new person as apposed to let customers use your app?
Other banks allow customers to do everything from their app, is your app not
Les says: Security on the app is very important. Our app is as secure as any on
the market. Actually, if you use your fingerprint to access your account that
is safer than using a password online. The reason we limit the payment for a
first-time payment is because that is a significant fraud indicator. Our app is
currently the best-rated in the market on the Apple app store by our customers.
You have made a great effort to persuade your customers to accept a Reward
current account (for which they must pay) with the promise of money back on
utilities bills and purchases at selected retailers. You have recently
announced that you have cut the % payback to the customer.
Can you guarantee that the Reward account is not simply a way of enticing
customers to pay for their banking while shaving off the financial incentive to
(Incidentally, if I want money off my purchases , I’ll get a Nectar card. I
don’t want or need my bank to spend time and money providing this dubious
Les says: Great question. The current account market is very competitive, but
with interest rates going down lots of our competitors have had to reduce the
rewards or interest rates. We have also done that but we think this account can
still be fantastic value. Actually, I have one! If you don’t think you will at
least recoup your monthly fee then you shouldn’t have the account, and we will
contact you to let you know you should change your account.
Will surviving branch staff still have targets, unofficial or otherwise, for
selling ‘products’ or earn commission on their sales? If so, how do basic
salaries/wages compare with the national Living Wage and, either way, how are
such clear incentives to mis-sell presented for compliance purposes?
Les says: We have no commission, no variable compensation for any branch or
telephony staff, and that’s on any product: mortgages, insurance, credit cards.
I was recently offered a credit card at my local NatWest and when I declined to
take up the offer (being a bit old fashioned, I don’t like taking out debt I
can’t afford to re-pay), the cashier said “good for you”. She knew I couldn’t
afford one. What pressure or incentive is applied to staff to offer customers
Les says: In this area I think we’ve done more than anyone. As of January 2016
we have removed all bonus or variable compensation from all our branch and
telephony staff. There are no staff that talk to customers that have variable
compensation. All are on a standard fixed salary. I think we are leading the
Why is your spread between buy and sell on the exchange rates so big? (This
translates to ‘Why be so greedy and take people’s money just because they want
Les says: Some of the rates that we use are standard rates that are set by
Visa. There are some areas where we have free banking, and there are some areas
where we charge. We are looking at simplification in this space, and I do think
you are likely to see more competition in money transfers, and you are likely
to find different ways for people to access transfers.
Where a customer pays money into the wrong account - perhaps getting a digit in
the account number wrong - and the lucky recipient dishonestly spends that
money, why do banks not do more to assist? For example by cross checking names
tally, or by clawing the money back, or by releasing information for legal
Les says: I agree that we can and should do more. Legal and personal privacy
issues make it difficult to reclaim money, so we should do more to help
customers not make the mistake in the first place. We are working on things
that will prompt customers to recheck if we think the account number may be
wrong. An example where we are helping today is customers can send a photo of
Are Russian cyber criminals or old school East End bank robbers the greater
Les says: The biggest threat are our own customers and how they keep their data
secure. Most criminals defraud customers by persuading them to hand over their
personal data. We will never ask for a password. Never give anyone your
password. The bank will neber call you and ask you to move your money to
another account. We have a security information centre on our website which has
more details, and you can also go into a branch and the staff will talk you
Les says: Right now we don’t plan to remove free banking. We as the market
charge for plenty of products and services, such as the Reward account. We want
to make sure that anything you pay for is good value. We have no plans to
I notice that NatWest are now offering a cash ISA at 1.00% that reduces to
0.01% after 12 months. How do you explain your reversal of the policy of not
using teaser rates that disappear after the first year?
Les says: “This rate is available to all customers, new and old, and that is
the same for all products. We are exploring promotional pricing.”
NatWest is closing both the Adel and Otley branches on the main road corridor
out of Leeds leading to the Northwest. This is going to have a significant
impact on communities for both businesses and individuals. Otley, a town of
over 10,000 will be 6-7 miles from a NatWest branch. Villages like Bramhope and
Pool with populations in the 3-4000 range, many elderly, will be between 5 and
I can just about see the logic in closing either Adel or Otley but not both.
The suggested alternative of Headingley has no nearby practical parking. One of
these two branches needs to be reprieved to serve a wide population of NatWest
Les says: Over the past five years, footfall has declined by about 40% across
all branches, and so we need to respond to what customers are doing. For every
branch closure we have a named local person you can talk to about alternatives
Our local branch is being closed and local people are very angry about it.
You’re not even leaving the cash machine behind as you have done in other small
towns where the branch has closed. People needing to actually visit a branch
will now have to travel about 10 miles to the nearest open branch making
banking very difficult for those, often elderly people who don’t bank online.
This is inconsiderate and irresponsible but a reasonable solution would be to
retain the cashpoint and have a mobile branch visit small towns on a set day
every week so local people who don’t bank online, can’t travel far or need a
face to face meeting still have an opportunity to do that locally. Would you be
prepared to give this idea a trial of 6 months to see if it gets a worthwhile
level of business in places when local branches have been closed please.
Les says: “There are more ways to bank today than there has ever been. People
have access to a post office, online, a mobile. If you don’t like digital, or
are in rural areas, you can go to a Post Office or use our mobile banks. Also
face to face in branch we have TechXperts who can help familiarise you with
digital services. And we also have community bankers who will focus
predominantly on rural areas and vulnerable customers to help them understand
Les Matheson is now in the building! The Q and A is underway …
Want to know why your local NatWest bank branch is closing? How you can
possibly be charged so much when you go overdrawn? Or why your savings account
is paying so little interest? Or maybe you have advice for NatWest on how it
Les Matheson, the RBS boss in charge of the bank’s almost 1,300 NatWest and
Royal Bank of Scotland’s branches and its 16.5 million current account
customers, will be taking your questions live at the Guardian on Wednesday
morning (12 April). But you can post your questions below now, and Matheson
will take on as many as possible from 10.15am on Wednesday.
Matheson joined RBS in 2010 from Australian bank Westpac, and in 2014 was put
in charge of its entire personal and business banking business in 2014. He was
taken on after RBS’s rescue by the taxpayer, so can’t really answer questions
on what the bank was doing before its crash, although he was around when
NatWest’s computer failure in 2012 left millions blocked out of their accounts.
You might want to probe him on how safe your money is from either internal
failures or external hackers. He will struggle to answer very specific details
of individual account issues – but promises to cover as many topics as possible
that are thrown at him. So get your questions in below!
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
