  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
'I'm the only trip-hop artist in Palestine!': the musicians shaking up the
Refugee rappers, ska stars from the Golan Heights, the Kraftwerk of the Levant
… meet the acts redefining Palestine in the shadow of the wall and the
‘Already deals are being struck’ … Moody Kablawi performing at the Palestine
[ ] ‘Already deals are being struck’ … Moody Kablawi performing at the
'I'm the only trip-hop artist in Palestine!': the musicians shaking up the
Refugee rappers, ska stars from the Golan Heights, the Kraftwerk of the Levant
… meet the acts redefining Palestine in the shadow of the wall and the
Tuesday 11 April 2017 18.39 BST Last modified on Wednesday 12 April 2017 
Guests arriving at international music conferences are usually welcomed with a
bit of a meet-and-greet by the pool, an ice-cool daiquiri and some tasty
canapes, perhaps. They are not normally whisked off to sites of forced
evictions and summary killings. But when the host city is the Palestinian
capital, Ramallah, normal rules – as with most of life in the occupied
The hilly West Bank town has just hosted PMX, the first ever Palestine Music
Expo. Dreamed up by three locals – a rapper, a composer and a journalist – and
a British record label boss, PMX showcased a blossoming of musical talent among
a people whose voices have struggled to be heard. What emerged after three
memorable days of talks, tours and live performances could form the blueprint
for a whole new music industry – and even the re-branding of a nation.
Martin Goldschmidt set up his label, Cooking Vinyl, in the 1980s and has worked
with Billy Bragg, Marilyn Manson and the Prodigy, among many others. He came to
a music-biz conference in Tel Aviv two years ago and decided to venture out
into Palestine. There he met rapper Mahmood Jrere from Palestinian crew DAM,
composer Abed Hathout and journalist Rami Younis from progressive news site
972mag.com, and they introduced him to several local acts. The place was alive
with talent – but lacked a music industry of its own.
“We knew we could provide delegates with an experience, an insight into the
place,” says Goldschmidt as he recalls hatching the plan for PMX. “Once you
visit Palestine, it gets under your skin. It messes with your head in quite a
Hip-hop group Sa’aleek, from the Qalandia refugee camp in Palestine.
Snapped up … hip-hop group Sa’aleek in the Qalandia refugee camp in Palestine.
Jrere agrees: “We wanted to give delegates a different perspective from the one
they get from the news.” And so, at 10am, a bus takes us to a refugee camp at
nearby Qalandia. There are 20 delegates from Britain, the US, Canada, Zimbabwe,
Brazil, Switzerland and France: agents, managers, lawyers, promoters and
As the bus sways through a blasted landscape of rubble and twisted metal, our
Palestinian guide points out evidence of what he calls an apartheid society. It
is shocking just how many walls there are. “These are apartheid roads,” he
says, indicating a sleek dual carriageway stretching for miles. Walled on both
sides, and topped with razor wire, this road is for Israelis only. To travel
the same route, Palestinians must go five times the distance through a series
of grubby checkpoints that are studies in dehumanisation.
There are no tents in Qalandia. Occupied by the Israelis after the six-day war
in 1967, the camp has existed since 1948, and is a maze of jerry-built,
breeze-block units and gaping rubbish sacks. Vivid black stencils on the
whitewashed walls depict the faces of young men killed by Israel’s security
forces. Our guides are three camp residents who make hip-hop under the name
“Sa’aleek also means Vigilantes,” says 20-year-old Mohammad Silwadi, a whip of
a boy with an eerie intensity. Despite unemployment among Palestinians being at
51%, he works at a petrol station and as a hospital chef – but he lives to
write rhymes. “This man was a journalist,” he says, pointing to a stencilled
face. “They shot him. Knocked down his house. It is forbidden to build it
He walks over to another face. “This was my friend,” he says, showing a
miniature of the same image on a chain around his neck. He’s close to tears.
His voluble bandmates fill in, invoking Tupac Shakur and Immortal Technique,
all in American English learned from hip-hop lyrics: “We are revolutionaries,
The wall separating Israel and Palestine at Qalandia
The wall separating Israel and Palestine at Qalandia. Photograph: Maria Zreik
At the edge of the camp is a checkpoint through which all Palestinians must
pass – on foot and only with the correct permit – to enter east Jerusalem.
Built into the wall and blackened by the smoke of burned tyres, an Israeli
observation tower looms over a perpetual jam of people and vehicles.
In the shadow of the tower, Silwadi opens a metal door. “Our studio,” he says.
We squeeze into the tiny room, which contains a computer, a keyboard, two
speakers and a mic. Dust fills our eyes and mouths, as well as every crevice of
the equipment. Silwadi clangs the door shut, the others fire up the beats, and
During the drive back to Ramallah, we learn that Sa’aleek are not actually on
the PMX bill. Ninety acts applied, but the Qalandia trio had never performed
live before so didn’t make the cut. This seems a shame, so the delegates decide
After lunch comes a speed-networking session, held at a fashion boutique in
Ramallah. The musicians line up amid the mannequins, while the delegates sit at
tables, looking dazed after the morning’s crash course in life for your average
Palestinian. A buzzer sounds to start the first 10 minutes of networking – or
in my case, interviewing. DJ Odai sits down. He’s a refugee from Jaffa. He
tells me he has often sneaked into the city of Haifa for gigs. I assumed its
walls – solid concrete eight metres tall – were unscalable. Not so, clearly;
though Odai once fell off and had to play his set with a broken leg.
“Being Palestinian fucks up your sense of identity,” says singer Rasha Nahas,
my next interviewee, “because Arabic is eradicated here and Hebrew is
everywhere. Eventually, you find yourself thinking in Hebrew, and you say,
‘Wait – this is the language of the oppressor!’ So English is a way to escape
that.” Finally there’s Moody Kablawi, a smiling, 6ft 5in trip-hop artist (“the
only one in Palestine!”) who has a gargantuan afro and controls his own
Goldschmidt and the expo’s other organisers are uncertain how many people will
buy a ticket to watch the evening’s music in the huge tent that has been
pitched in the hotel grounds. But by the time the first note is struck, there
are 1,000 people in the crowd. What is most striking is the variety of styles.
There’s a folky flavour to opening band Talila, while Nahas has the
theatricality of Weimar cabaret with added violins and rockabilly. Then Jrere
and his friends in DAM bring the noise, closing the night with an incendiary
The theatricality of Weimar cabaret with added violins and rockabilly … Rasha
Nahas live at PMX. Photograph: Sami Alalul or Breathing Stories
The next night the crowd is larger still, and barrel-chested MC Saz does the
pogo in full flowing white robes and fez, before stripping down to his vest –
and even that comes off in the end. Already deals are being struck. From the
Golan Heights on the border with Syria come the winningly named Toot Ard. Their
fusion of ska with the desert blues of bands such as Tinariwen quickly
persuades Scottish booking agent Isla Angus to make a move.
Angus handles the live careers of a roster of artists including Sleaford Mods,
and plans to bring the Palestinian group to Europe for shows at the end of
summer. Why does she think they’ll do well? “They sing in Arabic, but the
rhythm section is from the Prince Buster playbook,” she says. “It’s a joyful
package and there’s always something special about seeing a bunch of musicians
at the top of their game playing together. Plus, like everyone I’ve met here,
they are the personification of grace under pressure.”
The insider's cultural guide to Ramallah: 'A misunderstood cosmopolitan bubble'
After a final set of panel discussions and a moving livestream with musicians
in Gaza who are forbidden to leave the strip, PMX moves towards its finale,
which will take place in a cavernous basement. Its low ceilings bring an added
intensity – perfect conditions for Sa’aleek, back by demand from Qalandia, for
their first-ever live performance. They’re so excited (and under-rehearsed)
that they can barely remember how their songs go, but the crowd get behind
them, and when they go a cappella they turn things round. As they bounce their
way through the closing tune – a rousing mix of marching-band snare drums and
Then comes the final act, Zenobia. Two guys at keyboards making pulsing
electronic instrumentals that build to emotional climaxes, like some crazy
Kraftwerk of the Levant, and wild Arabic double-time clapping spreads through
It all goes to show that the best music is often born from adversity. Supported
by friends from many nations, in this swaying, cheering room of young people, a
new side to Palestine is emerging – one that is about joy, fun and laughter.
“Through music,” as one artist said to me, “we can be free.”
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
