  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Putting lipstick on the robot: why are corporate leaders happy about tech
Business leaders are suspiciously more chipper about the impact of robots and
[ ] ‘Economic equivalent of slave labor’: A recent Australian Financial Review
piece was headlined ‘We must work alongside robots, not against them’.
Putting lipstick on the robot: why are corporate leaders happy about tech
Business leaders are suspiciously more chipper about the impact of robots and
Wednesday 12 April 2017 06.50 BST Last modified on Wednesday 12 April 2017 
Call me suspicious but there appears to be a recent shift in how industry
spokespeople are talking about the relationship between work and automation.
Suddenly, the conversation is no longer gloomy prognostications about robots
taking our jobs; instead everyone is smiling brightly and telling us that our
future is going to see us working happily alongside robots and other
Robin Bordoli, the chief executive of the AI company CrowdFlower, wrote a piece
in December last year that may well be the template for this new approach. It
very precisely positions humans and technology as coworkers. “For too long the
thrust of AI has been to replace humans,” he writes. “A better framing is
realising that machines and humans have complementary capabilities ... AI is
While this is perfectly reasonable, what worries me is that we are seeing this
“positive” approach escalate into what feels like full-scale spin, an attempt
to apply lipstick to the pig of technological unemployment.
For instance, a recent AFR article was presented under the heading, “We must
work alongside robots, not against them”. Written by Cindy Hook, the CEO of
accounting firm Deloitte, it cheerily tells us that, “debate about
[digitisation] is beset with myths and fear-mongering. Fears about robots and
artificial intelligence taking jobs.” Hook is unimpressed with such talk, and
argues instead that the “reality is that robotic process automation (RPA) ...
By way of example, she mentions the introduction of artificial intelligence
programs into Deloitte’s payroll systems, and explains that this has allowed
them to on-shore work formerly off-shored to India. Thus, she says, “We can
actually process the payroll in Australia, using a machine that thinks
intuitively.” She concludes that, “I think of it as a machine working next to a
But what really happened here? Australian workers had already lost these jobs
to India and now the Indians are losing them to AI. I’m not sure this is the
Other examples of this spin around robots as coworkers can be found in a recent
Bloomberg article looking at the automation of warehouses. Patrick Clark and
Kim Bashin quote Rick Faulk, the CEO of Focus Robotics, a company helping
organisations like DHL automate. He says, “The first trend was to try to
replace humans. Now it’s about humans and robots working collaboratively.”
After explaining that a warehouse robot now carries items to a human checker –
while carefully not mentioning the human workers who no longer do the carrying
– Faulk intones, “Working with robots is a fun thing to do.”
CEO Dennis Mortensen recently said that Amy Ingram, the chatbot developed by
his company x.ai, has been asked out on dates by “her” fellow workers.
Such talk is insulting and, while I doubt there is any coordination in this
sudden spurt of happy talk from various business types, it does appear to be
the emergent narrative of a class of people who know big change is coming and
who are looking for a gentle way to break it to the rest of us.
None of this is to deny that many of us will end up working with robots and
other forms of artificial intelligence. The question is whether it will be
quite the panacea proponents pretend. After all, to work with a robot is to
work with something that requires neither pay, holidays, sick leave or even
It is the robot, therefore, that will set the standard for what is an
acceptable day’s work, which means that the pressure to increase human
productivity, to depress wages and conditions will be relentless. As
cybernetics pioneer Norbert Wiener observed in the 1950s, “Let us remember that
the automatic machine is the precise economic equivalent of slave labor. Any
labor which competes with slave labor must accept the economic consequences of
By hiding behind the shiny new narrative of robots and AI becoming our new
workmates, we lock ourselves into the mindset of the past: instead of
approaching the new technologies as a potential pathway to a better future, we
If AI and robots really are going to augment human work rather than simply
replace it, then it needs to be on terms that maximise human skills like
empathy, creativity, playfulness and ethics, not just in the sense of leaving
humans coequals with the technology or, worse still, its subordinates.
I shudder when I listen to this TED talk by designer Maurice Conti in which he
tells of a “cool project” with Bishop, a robot Conti and his partners have been
experimenting with. “The humans acted as labor,” he tells us. “And then we had
The question we should be asking ourselves and our politicians is not about how
we can keep some token job working next to a robot – but how the wealth
generated by the increased productivity of machines can be distributed fairly
and equitably to help us build a world in which the many, rather than the few,
In other words, the case for robots in the workplace should be made on the
basis that they increase human well being. It shouldn’t rely on phoney talk
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
