  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Sports Direct workers' rep faces 'uphill struggle', union warns
Union has branded move by owner Mike Ashley, who has come under fire over
Alex Balacki, who has been elected as Sports Direct’s employee representative.
[ ] Alex Balacki, who has been elected as Sports Direct’s employee
representative. Photograph: Alan Walter/Sports Direct/PA
Sports Direct workers' rep faces 'uphill struggle', union warns
Union has branded move by owner Mike Ashley, who has come under fire over
Wednesday 12 April 2017 09.37 BST Last modified on Wednesday 12 April 2017 
Sports Direct has elected an employee to attend board meetings, after a series
of scandals over the way the company is run and how it treats its staff.
But Unite, Britain’s biggest union, warned that the newly appointed board
member “will face an uphill struggle to have workers’ concerns heard and to
resolve the deep-rooted problems across the business”.
The appointment of Alex Balacki, 30, as the company’s employee representative
follows a tumultuous 2016 for the retailer that included its billionaire chief
executive, Mike Ashley, being hauled before MPs to be questioned over
Sports Direct's move to put worker on board branded 'PR exercise'
Balacki is a Barnstaple store manager who has been with the company for 13
years. He will begin his 12-month role as an employee representative later this
The union’s Luke Primarolo said: “Unite wishes the newest member of the Sports
Direct board well and would like to offer to meet as soon as possible so that
we can brief him on the experiences of the workforce.
“We urge that he makes one of his first acts to persuade the company that
agency workers on insecure hire-and-fire contracts are offered permanent
In a letter to staff, Ashley said: “I’d like to be the first to congratulate
Alex, who will help us to continue to make a positive difference by ensuring
“I have said many times that this is a company that was built by the great
people who work here. I am therefore delighted that the people at Sports Direct
have voted to choose the company’s first UK elected workers’ representative.”
Balacki said he was “very proud” to have been picked by staff ahead of two
rival candidates. “It’s now my role to ensure the people of Sports Direct are
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
