  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Student loan interest rate set to rise by a third after UK inflation surge
Increase in inflation, driven by pound’s Brexit slide, means students will pay
Letter with coins addressed to the Student Loans Company
[ ] The interest rate on student loans will increase from 4.6% to 6.1% from
Student loan interest rate set to rise by a third after UK inflation surge
Increase in inflation, driven by pound’s Brexit slide, means students will pay
Tuesday 11 April 2017 18.31 BST Last modified on Wednesday 12 April 2017 
Students appear to be paying a heavy price for the UK’s inflation surge after
the Brexit vote, which will drive the interest rate on their loans up by a
The rise in inflation, driven by a decline in the value of the pound since
June, means students will be charged substantially more interest on their
loans, despite the fact that many other consumers are benefiting from record
low interest rates. Personal loans from high street banks have rates starting
at 2.8%, while five-year fixed-rate mortgages are available from 1.29%.
Student loan interest rates are tied to March’s retail price inflation figure,
published on Tuesday. At the moment, new starters and current students are
charged 4.6% – the March 2016 RPI figure of 1.6%, plus 3% – on their loans. But
from September this will rise to 6.1%, made up of the March 2017 figure of
Universities minister announces sale of student loan book
As a result current students and a sizeable number of graduates will see the
interest rate on their student loan jump to more than 24 times the official
Those who took out their student loan on or after 1 September 2012 and who have
now graduated will from this autumn be charged between 3.1% and 6.1%, depending
Students are also paying the price for being tied to the RPI rate, which is
typically higher than the consumer prices index figure and is now relatively
little-used. The latest CPI inflation figure for March was 2.3%.
Jake Butler, an expert at money advice website Save the Student, said: “I was
expecting an increase to student loan interest this year, but this is worse
than expected. It really demonstrates that the interest on loans under the new
However, the website pointed out that those who started university after
September 2012 do not start repaying their loan until they are earning more
than £21,000 a year, adding: “Unless you start off with a graduate salary of
higher than £30,000, it’s unlikely you will pay off your full loan and interest
Butler said that in reality, the interest rate increase was simply adding to
the “massive amounts” of accumulated student loan debt “that the government
If an individual started university between 1998 and 2011, the interest rate
they are currently being charged is 1.25%, and will stay at this level come
September. This is because it is based on whichever is the lowest out of RPI or
the Bank of England base rate – currently 0.25% - plus 1%, said Save the
For those who started university before 1998, the rate they are currently
charged is 1.6%, but this will rise to 3.1% in September because it is based on
In the US, most types of federal student loan currently have a rate of 3.76%.
• This article was amended on 12 April 2017 to clarify that the interest rate
on student loans is rising to more than 24 times the official Bank of England
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
