  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
The older expats facing poverty – thanks to Brexit and frozen pensions
The fall in the pound’s value coupled with post-EU uncertainty and pension
regulations has led to alarm over the plight of many older British expats
Anne Puckridge moved to Canada in 2001 at the age of 76.
[ ] Anne Puckridge moved to Canada in 2001 at the age of 76. Photograph: Sheila
The older expats facing poverty – thanks to Brexit and frozen pensions
The fall in the pound’s value coupled with post-EU uncertainty and pension
regulations has led to alarm over the plight of many older British expats
Wednesday 12 April 2017 07.00 BST Last modified on Wednesday 12 April 2017 
Anne Puckridge isn’t scared for her future yet. But thanks to the post-Brexit
fall in the value of the pound, that time may soon come.
When the 93-year-old second world war veteran and lecturer moved to Canada in
2001, she expected to live in modest comfort on her UK pension. What she hadn’t
realised, however, was that pension would be frozen at the amount it was worth
at the time she moved to North America at the age of 76.
“The recent fall in the pound has made a terrible situation even worse,” said
Puckridge. “All my money goes on accommodation, food and the essentials of
living. There’s nothing left. I live from day to day, with the knowledge and
fear that if the exchange rate goes down any more, I’ll have to use up the last
of my life’s savings and then, I will literally have no financial cushion
Puckridge served in intelligence during the second world war.
Puckridge served in military intelligence during the second world war.
Puckridge is one of the half a million or so British people whose pensions have
been frozen after moving overseas, a rule that affects many living in – among
other places – British Commonwealth countries, including Australia and Canada.
Those living in the EU, the US or a list of countries including Samoa,
Macedonia and Puerto Rico, get pension increases in line with inflation due to
The frozen pension means Puckridge gets just £75.50 a week of her full UK
pension of £155.65 a week. Since the Brexit vote and the 15% fall in the value
of the pound which followed, Puckridge has had to trim her outgoings even
Puckridge, an intelligence officer in the war who worked on codes across the
army, RAF and navy, lived a comfortable life in Stroud, Gloucestershire, before
Now, she is so poor that she can’t afford basic foodstuffs. She said she would
soon have to give up her telephone and computer, and couldn’t remember the last
“It’s absolutely scandalous, I can’t believe the British government can be so
cruel to pensioners when they have our money: I have paid national insurance
But Puckridge is trapped: “I can’t afford to come back to the UK. I couldn’t
afford to buy a property there – prices have gone up in the UK much further
than they have here – and I can’t afford to rent either: I might live for
another two decades. I’m trapped in Canada where prices are going up and my
pension is going down. I have to worry about money every single day. I feel
Figures released last year show that in September 2014, there were 1.24 million
people receiving a state pension outside the UK. Just under half of these,
around 560,000, were in countries – including South Africa, New Zealand, India
If Puckridge had moved to a European country or the US, her pension would have
increased in line with inflation. Even if today, Puckridge were to visit the
UK, her pension would be increased for the time period she was in the country.
However, since the post-Brexit slide in the value of sterling, it is not just
retirees who have moved outside the UK and had their pensions frozen who are
suffering. In response, Sir Roger Gale, the Conservative MP and chair of the
all-party parliamentary group on frozen British pensions, has widened his
campaign to include all retired UK citizens living overseas.
“The post-Brexit fall in sterling is extremely worrying for any pensioner
living abroad whose main income is their state pension. Overnight, their income
has crashed,” said Gale, who works closely with The International Consortium of
“We’re talking about a lot of very elderly, very frail people living on
retirement incomes, many of whom are already so badly off that they moved to
warmer countries to save on fuel payments,” Gale said. “They’ve sunk all their
disposable income into their properties. Their only disposable income now is
Gale warns that these pensioners are trapped: they can’t sell their properties
for what they paid for them, “because the sort of properties expats buy aren’t
wanted by the local population”. They can’t buy homes back in the UK, because
property prices have soared since they left. Returning to live in the UK by
renting is insecure because they might live longer than they can afford to pay
Roger Gale MP is worried that pensioners’ predicament could worsen during
Roger Gale MP is worried that pensioners’ predicament could worsen during
negotiations with the EU. Photograph: Lewis Whyld/PA Archive/Press Association
Gale is also concerned the situation will be further eroded during negotiations
over the current reciprocal pension arrangements with EU countries. He
criticises the “cavalier attitude of many politicians towards this group of
“Will their state pensions be index-linked once we leave Europe?” he asked.
“Will they still get their current healthcare and other vital payments, such as
invalid and carer’s allowances? This all has to be negotiated and I fear will
be conceded to get something more headline-worthy.”
    They’ve sunk all their disposable income into their properties. Their only
Chris Tudor, 70, moved to Spain from Bristol in 1997 with his wife, 66-year-old
Ray. The fall in the pound has meant Ray, a retired postmistress, must keep
working as a cleaner in a local hotel, despite having planned to retire this
“The deflation of the pound is a big deal for us,” said Tudor, a retired
firefighter. “It’s hit us very hard and happened so quickly: it happened in a
single month. All our bills are much more expensive.
“If the exchange rate stays this low for another three years, we will have to
sell our house and rent instead, and just hope that the money we would release
But if the Brexit negotiations take away the Tudors’ current right to access
Spanish healthcare for free, their situation will become acute, he said.
“That would be a major problem,” said Tudor. “We’re just about managing now but
if we have to pay for healthcare as we age, it would be a catastrophe. A major
Rob Hallums, founder of Experts for Expats, said he had seen a 20% rise in
enquiries from concerned pensioners around the world since the Brexit vote.
“Lots of these expat pensioners want to come back to the UK but can’t afford
property here any more,” he said. “No one knows how far the pound is going to
fall but it is likely to get worse before it gets better. Unfortunately for
most people, there’s not much that can be done other than finding better ways
He advises people to stay where they are. “Pensioners shouldn’t move home when
the situation is in such flux and emotions are so high,” he said. “Things might
start getting better in a couple of years and no one knows what legislation
“My advice is don’t panic and if you can get by without moving back to the UK,
Harry Shindler, 95, has lived in Italy for 30 years. He has a son in Rome but
lives alone near Pescara. “The state pension is my main source of income. As
the pound gets weaker, I try to keep going by reducing my food bill and my
heating bills, even though it gets very cold here. But if the pound continues
to go down, the conditions are very serious,” he added. “It’s a very worrying
    UK retirees less willing to move abroad after Brexit vote, poll finds
    Over-50s considering leaving for warmer climates deterred by concerns over
    access to good healthcare following exit from EU
    UK retirees less willing to move abroad after Brexit vote, poll finds
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
