  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Donald Trump’s tax holiday 'would help top US companies save $300bn'
Oxfam says corporations, using offshore havens, cheat poor nations of $100bn a
Apple’s CEO said the tech firm expected to ‘bring home’, back to the US, much
[ ] Apple’s CEO said the tech firm expected to ‘bring home’, back to the US,
much of its offshore cash this year. Photograph: Peter Parks/AFP/Getty
Donald Trump’s tax holiday 'would help top US companies save $300bn'
Oxfam says corporations, using offshore havens, cheat poor nations of $100bn a
Wednesday 12 April 2017 08.58 BST First published on Wednesday 12 April 2017 
Donald Trump’s plan to encourage US companies to repatriate profits held
offshore will allow the 50 biggest American corporations to save at least
The US president has promised that he will get America’s biggest companies to
bring their vast offshore cash piles back to US soil by offering a one-off tax
holiday. The plan is to tax repatriated money at 10% rather than at the
Trump tax cut plan will be as big a flop as failed healthcare reforms | Nouriel
America’s 50 biggest companies had combined offshore cash piles of more than
$1.6tn in 2015, according to Oxfam’s research. Corporate America has been
keeping the money overseas because through legal loopholes corporations can
defer US taxes continually so long as income is not repatriated to the US.
The amount of money held offshore, much of it in tax havens, increased by
$200bn in 2015, according to Oxfam’s Rigged Reform paper.
Trump’s proposed tax holiday would be a big boost for US technology companies
which make a lot of money overseas and often park the profits in low-tax
Apple holds more than $200bn offshore, and was last year accused of tax
avoidance by the European commission and ordered to pay €13bn (£11bn) in back
taxes. Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, denied the charges and dismissed the
EC investigation as “political crap”. However, he later said that he expected
to bring home much of the offshore cash pile in 2017. He said Apple had set
aside “several billion dollars for the US for payment as soon as we repatriate”
Trump's economic policies: protectionism, low taxes and coal mines
During the 2016 presidential campaign, Trump promised that his one-off 10% rate
would “bring back trillions of dollars from American businesses that is now
parked overseas”. He said at a campaign event in Michigan: “We’re going to get
Apple to start building their damn computers and things in this country rather
Oxfam’s research suggested that Apple would save $43.5bn in tax by taking
advantage of Trump’s one-off 10% repatriation tax.
Other companies sitting on vast fortunes parked offshore include the drugs
maker Pfizer, with $193bn, Microsoft, with $124bn, and GM, with $104bn.
The Oxfam research suggested that the 50 biggest US companies could
collectively save between $312 and $327bn by bringing back their offshore cash
The charity said the companies were exploiting a network of 1,751 subsidiaries
in tax havens to hold cash from the US tax authorities. There is no suggestion
US gained only 98,000 jobs in March, putting a chill on Trump's promises
Ana Arendar, Oxfam’s head of inequality, said: “These companies have deepened
their use of tax havens and increased efforts to build influence to push for
even greater tax breaks than they already have. Corporate tax dodgers cheat the
US out of approximately $135bn in unpaid tax revenues every year and poor
The report claims that the 50 companies spent $2.5bn on lobbying between 2009
and 2015, including an estimated $352m specifically spent on influencing the
tax debate. The total amount spent on lobbying works out at about $46m for
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
