  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
View from Damascus: rebuilding in the midst of war
British Red Cross press officer Penny Sims has been in Syria for the last four
[ ] A plea for peace painted on the wall in Homs. Photograph: Penny Sims/
View from Damascus: rebuilding in the midst of war
British Red Cross press officer Penny Sims has been in Syria for the last four
One afternoon, I managed to sneak away to see the Krak des Chevaliers. This
medieval castle used to be a big tourist destination. I’d met some people in
Jordan a couple of years ago who told me that it was absolutely stunning.
We were delivering sheep to farmers in rural Homs who were returning to their
land. We gave out 1,000 sheep in the space of a week – two pregnant sheep for
each farmer. In most cases it was nothing compared with what they’d had before
the conflict, but the farmers were still pleased. I spoke to one woman who was
setting up a women’s collective; they’d just had the olive harvest and were
excited about starting work and selling the oil again.
The castle was nearby, so while we were waiting for the sheep to arrive I
walked up to see it. It was magnificent. It was built in the 12th century by
the Kurds who were settled in the region, and then taken over by the Knights
Hospitaller during the Crusades. Somehow it has remained standing for all these
years. T E Lawrence called it “the most admirable castle in the world”. It’s
When I got back to sheep duty (which also involved chasing and wrestling an
escaping sheep), I mentioned the castle, and one of the local men said “Aha!”
and disappeared off into his home and then came back waving a CD-Rom about it
for me. Turned out he used to be a tour guide, way back before the conflict
Al Hosn village beneath Krak des Chevaliers castle in rural Homs.
Al Hosn village beneath Krak des Chevaliers castle in rural Homs. Photograph:
Flying direct to Syria isn’t recommended at the moment, so I landed in Lebanon
and then drove from Beirut. On a good day it only takes about 90 minutes, and
you don’t normally get delayed going into Syria; it’s going out where the
It’s odd in Damascus. Yes, the war is going on, but you can also go out for a
meal, go to a concert. There is actually some degree of normality. And there
are people moving back too. That makes a complicated message to get across.
I was there to run communications training and support the volunteers who make
up the Syrian Arab Red Crescent (SARC). Comms is important because it needs to
be understood that we’re neutral and impartial. In conflict it’s easy for
Take one example – SARC was going to an area controlled by two different armed
groups, and on the Tuesday we went to deliver aid to one part of the area. Then
we began to get messages on our Facebook page saying there were rumours that we
were only helping one group and not the other. You have to clear these things
up very quickly, because it can cause tension, it can lead to delays at
checkpoints. If you get comms right, you can help increase funding,
understanding, access. If you get it wrong, it’s the opposite.
There are visible changes since I was there two years ago. The centre of
Damascus is generally calmer. There are some new businesses being set up.
People are returning to set up restaurants, sandwich bars. But there are also
You can see that the years of war have tired people out. I asked one person how
their weekend was, and they told me – laughing – that they’d had to move for
the sixth time that year. You can see the worry, the exhaustion, on people’s
faces. But they still have a sense of humour. In one place with electricity for
an hour a day, they were joking about how pleased they are when they eventually
You see the oddest things. I took a photograph where the building on the right
was pockmarked and riddled with bullet holes while the building to the left had
been rebuilt and was gleaming new. It was like a peculiar optical illusion.
The war continues, but rebuilding is happening. Photograph: Penny Sims, British
I’ve heard some very sad stories. At a malnutrition clinic in rural Hama, where
people aren’t getting enough food, one of our ambulance drivers told me about a
woman who had lost her home and was living in the shell of a building. She
needed medical treatment, but she refused to leave the shelter. She was too
shell-shocked and traumatised to leave the only home she had. She physically
refused to be moved. In the end, SARC brought medication and a doctor to her.
Sometimes you do see change. One volunteer told me about a family who were
living in a tent because they had no paperwork. They’d been stuck there for
months, so the mobile team were bringing them food. When they first saw the
children they were at the acute malnutrition stage but after a few months the
boys were healthy, happy – as happy as it is possible to be in that situation.
I know a lot of the volunteers keep photographs on their phones of stories like
this. You want to be reminded sometimes that it can work, that things can get
For more information about the work of the Red Cross and Red Crescent in Syria
Join our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow 
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
