  • [                    ] [SUBMIT] What term do you want to search?
  • switch to the US edition switch to the AU edition switch to the INT edition
Virgin couldn’t find Anytime at all for us to book a balloon flight
I was given the vouchers in 2014 but after four cancellations its been
[ ] Left up in the air: trying to book a balloon flight proved to be a
Virgin couldn’t find Anytime at all for us to book a balloon flight
I was given the vouchers in 2014 but after four cancellations its been
Sunday 9 April 2017 07.00 BST Last modified on Tuesday 11 April 2017 13.47 BST
As a 60th birthday present I was given vouchers for a Virgin balloon flight,
ironically called 7 Day Anytime, for myself and two adult sons. That was in
2014. They both work full time in different cities and I also work, making
booking a flight at weekends the only viable option. This is virtually
impossible as the flight times and dates are only released a month in advance
and seem to be fully booked within minutes of reaching the website. We managed
to book on four occasions but each time it was cancelled, apparently due to bad
weather. Each time Virgin extended the voucher for a further six months.
However, in 2016 I was unable to rebook because one of my sons was travelling
before starting a new job, with no confirmed start date. Virgin said it would
extend the vouchers into the new year. However, it can’t find a record of this
conversation, even though I used the same mobile as I have now.
When I tried to rebook in January it said the vouchers had expired, and it
wanted £40 or £50 per person for “administration charges”. When I refused, its
complaints department initially agreed to reinstate the vouchers after
demanding proof that my son had actually been away.
I contacted Virgin with some possible dates when all three of us were available
in late April and May. I was offered two dates in April on a take-it-or-leave
-it basis, then it demanded an extra £10 to extend them for a month claiming I
had been too slow in taking up the reinstatement offer. Again, I refused.
The whole experience has been a nightmare. The booking process is so
restrictive that it is virtually impossible to get three places on a weekend
Virgin has been remarkably inflexible and shows no understanding of the
Virgin Experience – and Virgin Balloon Flights – feature with some regularity
in this column. Commonly, vouchers for these trips are bought as gifts, which
rather takes the joy out of it when recipients have problems arranging dates or
– typically – getting refunds. Virgin points out hot air ballooning is
weather-dependent and it will never take any risk with passengers’ safety.
It adds that its weekend flights are “for obvious reasons our most popular and
do get booked up very quickly. However, our customer service team is on hand
seven days a week, all year round, to help any passenger struggling to find a
“We also extend all of our vouchers following any cancellation by us to ensure
passengers always have at least six months to book again, as often as required,
until they do get into the air. We do not charge for rebooking by any passenger
with a valid flight voucher. The expiry date of a voucher is a date by which
passengers need to have booked, rather than a date by which they need to have
flown. So even though we only fly March to October, passengers can still book
on to flights during the winter for the start of the following season.”
All this is explained in its terms and conditions – and, crucially, that if
your flight is cancelled you must book a new date before a voucher expires.
Virgin says it records all calls and takes issue with some aspects of your
version of events. However, as a goodwill gesture it is offering a further
extension of a month and says it will be happy to assist you with booking an
We welcome letters but cannot answer individually. Email us at 
consumer.champions@theguardian.com or write to Consumer Champions, Money, the
Guardian, 90 York Way, London N1 9GU. Please include a daytime phone number
• The photograph and caption on this article were changed on 11 April 2017.
© 2017 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
