England eased to a dominant victory over Austria at Stadium MK in their final home game before Euro 2017.

The Lionesses led when Ellen White glanced in Isobel Christiansen's cross inside five minutes.

As Christiansen hit the bar after the break, right-back Lucy Bronze followed in the rebound to double the lead.

Captain Steph Houghton then rose highest from a late corner, her header grazing Christiansen before it bounced into the bottom corner to make it 3-0.

Victory was England's second from seven games in 2017 and their first on home soil since a 5-0 win over Estonia in September.

Austria - ranked 24th in the Fifa world rankings, 20 places below England - proved hard for the Lionesses to break down in the first half, but failed to significantly test home keeper Siobhan Chamberlain's reflexes.

Relive England's win over Austria
Lionesses far more clinical

England - who missed numerous chances to win during Friday's 1-1 draw with Italy - immediately showed greater composure in front of goal as White lost her marker to turn Christiansen's excellent delivery into the far corner.

They then found themselves up against an Austria keeper in inspired form, as Manuela Zinsberger denied Toni Duggan from close range after the break, having produced a solid low save to prevent a deflection off Nadine Prohaska creeping in for an own goal on 31 minutes.

Bayern Munich keeper Zinsberger also pulled off a superb double save from Christiansen inside the six-yard box, as England's defence were rarely called into action at the other end.

After the introduction of Chelsea forward Karen Carney for her 127th cap, England soon doubled their lead - Bronze darting forward to intercept an Austrian clearance and supply her Manchester City team-mate Christiansen, whose shot hit the bar but fell to Bronze to burst in to beat Zinsberger.

Houghton and Christiansen combined to add a third goal that accurately reflected the Lionesses' dominance in the second half.

Who staked a claim to face the Scots?

With eight of the side that started against Italy once again lining up on Monday, Mark Sampson's preferred XI for the opening game against Scotland at the Euros in July is starting to take shape.

After two solid displays at left-back, Manchester City's Demi Stokes looks now set to remain as the first-choice number three in a back four that includes her City team-mates Houghton and Bronze.

Another energetic performance from midfield should help Jordan Nobbs' cause to be a certain starter in the Netherlands, while fellow midfielder Jade Moore rarely put a foot wrong in a solid, albeit quiet, display.

Christiansen - playing wide on the left in contrast to her usual central role for her club - was busy and involved in all of the home side's goals.

Up front, Birmingham City striker White - returning to the side after missing Friday's game with a slight knock - took her chance to impress Sampson by converting her early opportunity.

Player of the match - Lucy Bronze (England)

Lucy Bronze scores
Manchester City right-back Lucy Bronze scored England's second from close range to cap a fine all-round display
Resolute in defence as ever and strong going forward down the right flank, Bronze deserved her fifth goal for England.

Continuing to make a case for being the best right-back in the world, Bronze's class shone again in a performance that was typical of a Champions League semi-finalist. She will remain one of the first names on Sampson's teamsheet.

'We were hurt by our recent record' - manager reaction

England boss Mark Sampson: "Austria's physicality and tactical nous caused us some problems in the first half but without ever threatening our goalkeeper.

"Our performance in the second half was excellent, from one to 11. There was really good balance to our game.

"We were hurt a little bit by our recent record. We felt hard-done by in terms of results.

"It was big to win. It was important. We needed that. We were under a bit of pressure after one win in six. If we want to be the best team in the world, we need to start winning matches consistently."

What's next?

England's players will now return to their clubs for the Women's Super League One Spring Series, from 22 April to 3 June, before regrouping again to prepare for this summer's tournament.

Sampson's side will travel to Biel to face Switzerland on 10 June in another friendly and will also play one more away fixture prior to travelling to the Netherlands, with the opponents still to be confirmed.

After a training camp, the Lionesses then face Scotland in their opening game in Group D on 19 July.
