With global temperatures continuing to rise, experts have warned that a chunk of frozen soil bigger than Australia could melt.
Permafrost - soil that has been frozen for at least two years - is more sensitive and susceptible to global warming than previously thought, according to the new study.
Predictions suggest that for every degree hotter the planet gets, four million square kilometres (1.5 million square miles) of permafrost would be lost.
Scroll down for video 
Permafrost - soil that has been frozen for at least two years - is more sensitive and susceptible to global warming than previously thought, according to the new study. Pictured is permafrost melting in Norway	+2
Permafrost - soil that has been frozen for at least two years - is more sensitive and susceptible to global warming than previously thought, according to the new study. Pictured is permafrost melting in Norway
WHAT IS PERMAFROST? 

Permafrost - soil that has been frozen for at least two years - is more sensitive and susceptible to global warming than previously thought, according to the new study.

It is mostly found in high-latitude regions like the Arctic, and stores large quantities of carbon dioxide and methane, which are released into the atmosphere if the soil melts and decomposes. 

An estimated 35 million people currently live in cities or towns on top of permafrost, and thawed soil could cause the ground to become unstable, the scientists said.

The researchers said this would put buildings, roads and other infrastructure at risk of collapsing.

The daunting findings come from a new study by researchers from the University of Exeter and University of Leeds. 
Dr Sarah Chadburn, lead author of the study, said: 'The amount of permafrost that thaws under global warming is going to be very large, and this is the first time we've really put numbers on it.'
Permafrost, mostly found in high-latitude regions like the Arctic, stores large quantities of carbon dioxide and methane, which are released into the atmosphere if the soil melts and decomposes.
The study, published in the journal Nature Climate Change, found that for every degree the world warms, four million sq km (1.5 million sq miles) of permafrost would be lost.
They looked at frozen waste areas in Siberia and Canada.  
An increase in global warming by 2째C would thaw more than 40 per cent of the Earth's permafrost, according to the study.
RELATED ARTICLES
Previous
1
Next

An alternative to Trump's wall? Designers propose a new...

How the way you tap a phone can give hackers your PIN:...

Remains of a mysterious 3,700-year-old structure near Cairo...

More than a QUARTER of the UK's birds are at risk of...
SHARE THIS ARTICLE
Share
The 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change aims to limit this, by using the cooperation of almost 200 countries to attempt to keep the global temperature increase 'well below' 2째C above pre-industrial levels.
But at the current level of warming, Dr Chadburn said, 'you could lose almost all of the permafrost.'
An increase in global warming by 2째C would thaw more than 40 percent of the Earth's permafrost, according to the study	+2
An increase in global warming by 2째C would thaw more than 40 percent of the Earth's permafrost, according to the study
An estimated 35 million people currently live in cities or towns on top of permafrost, and thawed soil could cause the ground to become unstable, the scientists said.
The researchers said this would put buildings, roads and other infrastructure at risk of collapsing.
Dr Eleanor Burke, co-author of the study, added: 'The ability to more accurately assess permafrost loss can hopefully feed into a greater understanding of the impact of global warming and potentially inform global warming policy.'


Read more: http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-4398446/Permafrost-bigger-Australia-melt-climate-targets-missed-scientists.html#ixzz4dx2gW0wH 
Follow us: @MailOnline on Twitter | DailyMail on Facebook
