Why is Barclays in trouble with the Bank of England again and what happens
Barclays The controversy is the latest scandal to hit Barclays
At issue are chief executive Jes Staley’s attempts to learn the identity of a
whistleblower. The bank has revealed that in June 2016 board members received
an anonymous letter and a senior executive also received a second anonymous
letter “raising concerns about a senior employee who had been recruited by
Barclays said: “Amongst other issues, the letters raised concerns of a personal
nature about the senior employee, Mr Staley's knowledge of and role in dealing
with those issues at a previous employer, and the appropriateness of the
recruitment process followed on this occasion by Barclays.”
The letters were investigated by Barclays’ compliance department as
whistleblows. Under the rules laid down by City watchdog the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA), if a whistleblower asks for anonymity a firm must respect
However, Mr Staley asked the bank’s group information security (GIS) team to
try and unmask the authors of the letters. The lender said that this was
because he “considered that the letters was an unfair personal attack on a
senior employee”. Having been told that this was inappropriate, the GIS team
A month later, however, Mr Staley “enquired whether the whistleblowing issue
with the letters had been cleared”. The bank said that “following this, Mr
Staley's honestly held, but mistaken, belief was that he had clearance to
He then once again tasked the GIS team to find out who wrote the letters. The
GIS team went as far to to enlist the help of a US law enforcement agency to
help it investigate the matter but were ultimately unsuccessful in unmasking
The Barclays board learnt of Mr Staley’s attempt to identify the author early
this year following “a concern raised by an employee regarding amongst other
matters the adequacy of Barclays whistleblowing procedures”. It appointed law
firm Simmons & Simmons to investigate the matter, an internal probe that was
led by the bank’s deputy chairman, Sir Gerry Grimstone.
The bank also notified authorities, including the FCA and the Bank of England’s
Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA). The New York Department for Financial
Services is also reportedly looking into the matter.
Barclays said: “The investigation by Simmons & Simmons found, and the board has
concluded, that Mr Staley honestly, but mistakenly, believed that it was
“However, the board has concluded that Mr Staley made an error in becoming
involved with, and not applying appropriate governance around, the matter, and
in taking action to attempt to identify the author of the letter.”
Mr Staley has apologised to the board. John McFarlane, Barclays’ chairman, said
that it “has accepted his explanation that he was trying to protect a colleague
who had experienced personal difficulties in the past from what he believed to
be an unfair attack, and has accepted his apology”.
The FCA and PRA have launched a joint investigation into Mr Staley, Barclays
and its “systems and controls and culture relating to whistleblowing”. This
probe could lead to Barclays being fined and being forced to change its
City watchdog the FCA is investigating the incident, as is the PRA
Mr Staley could also be fined and receive a public censure by the authorities.
In the worst case he could be banned from working in the City, which would cost
Barclays will also taking action against its chief executive by slashing part
The bank said: “The board believes that its response to the matter should be
proportionate to its serious nature. It will therefore be issuing a formal
written reprimand to Mr Staley and has decided that a very significant
compensation adjustment will be made to Mr Staley's variable compensation
“The board will give consideration to the findings of the FCA and PRA
investigations and the precise amount of the compensation adjustment will be
determined by the board once those investigations have concluded.
“Barclays and Mr Staley will cooperate fully with the FCA and PRA
investigations. The board is also commissioning independent reviews of Barclays
relevant processes and controls, including its whistleblowing programme.”
Significantly, however, Mr McFarlane has given his backing to Mr Staley. He
said: “Taking into account both the circumstances of this matter and his
otherwise exemplary record since joining Barclays, including contributing
significantly to improvements in Barclays culture and controls, Jes continues
to have the board’s unanimous confidence and it will support his re-appointment
What are other regulatory and legal problems does Barclays face?
The FCA and PRA probes into the whistleblowing controversy add to a long list
of issues facing the bank, which like other lenders has been hit was a range of
fines for misconduct in recent years, including a £290m penalty in 2012 for
attempting to manipulate Libor, a scandal that led to the resignation of
John McFarlane, the Barclays chairman, said Mr Staley has the board's
It currently faces a lawsuit from the US Department of Justice (DoJ) over
claims it mis-sold toxic mortgage-backed securities that contributed to the
financial crisis, after it failed - unlike other banks - to reach a settlement
Barclays is also awaiting a key announcement from the Serious Fraud Office,
which is expected to reach a charging decision by the end of May following an
investigation into the £12bn emerging fundraisings the lender undertook with
Middle Eastern investors during the banking crisis in 2008. The SFO is probing
£322m of fees that Barclays paid to Qatar during the cash calls and has
interviewed a number of former executives, including Mr Diamond and his
predecessor John Varley. Individuals and the bank could be prosecuted depending
In addition, the FCA is investigating the Qatar fees while Barclays also faces
a lawsuit from financier Amanda Staveley, whose firm helped the bank during the
fundraisings and claims it is owed more than £700m in fees for its work.  
The revelations are damaging to the bank at a time when Mr Staley appeared to
be making progress at the firm. Earlier this year, the lender posted a near
trebling of annual pre-tax profits to £3.23bn from £1.15bn in 2015 after it
paid out less to settle litigation and to the victims of the payment protection
insurance mis-selling scandal. Mr Staley also said he would be closing
Barclays’ non-core division at the end of June, six months ahead of schedule
and signalling his turnaround was taking hold faster than he had expected.
`This latest revelation represents a very significant embarrassment for the
board as it tries to rebuild the group’s reputation.'Gary Greenwood, analyst at
Shore Capital analyst Gary Greenwood said: “Given Barclays’ history of
regulatory misdemeanours, most notably the high profile investigation into
Libor rigging which led to former CEO Bob Diamond’s departure from the group,
this latest revelation represents a very significant embarrassment for the
board as it tries to rebuild the group’s reputation.  
“As for Mr Staley, it remains to be seen whether the PRA and FCA come to the
same conclusion as the board in allowing him to remain in his post, although we
would assume that the sanctions proposed will have already been discussed with
the regulators and should therefore help to mitigate this risk. It is possible
“Operationally, we believe that Barclays has made excellent progress under the
stewardship of Jes Staley, notably in respect of running off non-core assets
and rebuilding the capital base.  To remove Mr Staley from his role at this
juncture would be damaging to further operational progress, with an improvement
“While Mr Staley’s reputation has undoubtedly taken a serious knock, we believe
that it remains in the best interests of shareholders to keep him in the post
of CEO and hence we recommend that they follow the board’s direction and vote
in favour of his reappointment at the AGM in May.”
Barclays shares fell as much as 1.2pc to 212.75p in early trading but had
If you would like to add a comment, please register or log in
    From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in history
    Gallery: From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in
    Gallery: Public relations nightmares: is United Airlines' removal of a
    Gallery: All the major high street brands that have collapsed since the
    Akzo Nobel has come under increasing pressure from shareholders
    AkzoNobel reports shareholder Elliott to financial authorities following
    Pound hits 12-day high against euro after UK jobs report but wage growth
    Thanks for the advice, but no thanks: BHP Billiton dismisses 'flawed'
    UK unemployment down again but pay growth stalls
    Spoof books boost WH Smith as travel business continues to outweigh high
    From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in history
    Gallery: From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in
    Panmure Gordon boss to leave following Bob Diamond takeover 
    United Airlines shares hit turbulence as passenger backlash grows
    Tesco is hoping to win over shareholders with its rise in profits and sales
    Tesco unveils first UK sales growth for seven years
    Gallery: Public relations nightmares: is United Airlines' removal of a
    Questor: buy JD Sports for its unique relationships with the major sports
    Cyber attacks knock millions off FTSE share prices
    Comment: The UK can continue to be a world leader in fintech
    Fred Goodwin in court as 'misleading' RBS faces wrath of shareholders
    Comment: Barclays must once again prove it can save itself 
    Comment: JD Sports leaves Sports Direct in the shade
    Technology and the internet risk fuelling a surge in migration and
    Barclays investors warn 'entirely possible' regulators will force out boss
    Soaring Trump dollar risks global trade war and China currency crisis,
    Britain's essential role in global aerospace may come under pressure from
    Openreach aims to accelerate broadband upgrades in talks with BT rivals
We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you
can continue to access our quality content in the future.
