‘As you get bigger, the company culture can creak’
Victoria Brocklesby, co-founder, Origin Doors and Windows 'There’s often little
you can do with big political events, other than be reasonable about risks,'
says Victoria Brocklesby of Origin Doors and Windows Credit: David Rose
The co-founder of Origin Doors and Windows, Victoria Brocklesby, explains how
the company has retained the atmosphere of a family firm while driving
I haven’t really got any other business experience apart from Origin Doors and
Windows. I helped start the company straight out of education. I read physics
at Southampton University, travelled for a year and joined the company.
My father had his own company. So as far as I can remember, I’ve been used to a
family business environment. Starting a door business at 23, with my cousin,
We had one product then: a bi-folding aluminum door. That’s how it all started.
It was good to be young and inexperienced; it meant that we just cracked on,
When we first started, it was pretty much just me and Neil, who’s a very
creative, ideas-led person. I’m more mathematically minded – as a result of my
studies – so I tend to focus on finances. But with so few of us, starting out
involved doing a bit of everything and working ridiculous hours, visiting the
factory, dealing with customers, monitoring cash flow and so on.
Join the community | Share your small business story
My role was always quite operational, as I’m very organised, logical and picky.
I love a spreadsheet. My official title is chief operating officer. Working
here has been great throughout, but it has been tough since having children and
How has the atmosphere changed as the business has grown?
As you get bigger, the culture can creak. It’s obvious when tension arises.
Crossing the point where I no longer knew all members of staff closely was a
bit horrible, to be honest. If I miss anything, it’s that change from being a
small, close-knit team. But because it was a family business, it kept a
`My biggest worry is that we have staff who might feel that their work here is
Something like 70pc of our staff are related to each other. So it’s quite
unusual, but it’s a lovely environment. It has been hard. Once you pass the
point of 100 or 120 people, you don’t see them often enough to stay in close
contact. I still walk the business at least once a week, to keep a sense of
We’ve made a concerted effort to hold onto our culture. We have a quarterly get
together, in addition to seasonal things such as the Christmas party. At each
of these meetings, we call them townhall meetings – we invite a different
section of the business to give an informal and light-hearted presentation
about what they’re working on, and the leaders share their plans for the next
quarter. Quite simply, it makes sure everyone knows what’s going on.
We also have a careful induction process; everyone is given a full tour and
welcomed as a new starter in our newsletter, with a bit of information about
The other thing that we do that’s really effective is to get people to identify
their key relationships across departments. Then we actively encourage them to
spend time together that’s not directly business related: a coffee or a short
walk – for just a few minutes. It allows them to get to know one another as
My biggest worry is that we ever have staff who might feel that their work at
How have changes like Brexit impacted on operations?
One of our biggest costs is obviously aluminium, as we manufacture things from
it. We don’t, as some companies might, fix a price by agreeing to buy from
suppliers at a set rate ahead of time. The only times that we’ve tried fixing
We buy our aluminium from Spain. We've felt the changes in the exchange rate.
It has increased costs a bit. However, we’ve got a very good relationship with
`Exporting isn't made easy enough; each country’s legal system has lots of red
We think about how to manage the risk of rising prices and fluctuating exchange
rates all the time. We’ve started a US operation and we’re extruding aluminum
there too, giving us a second option if markets prove volatile.
It sounds naive, but there’s often little you can do with these big political
events, other than be reasonable about risks. You just have to get on with it,
like we did through the last recession, and like my dad did through the
What advice do you have for other businesses that are looking to export?
Exporting isn’t easy. It can be a massive pain in the backside. We manufacture
in the US, rather than export there, because it’s easier.
I don’t think it’s made easy enough; each country’s legal system has lots of
It’s a tough ask logistically too; getting products out of a country and into
another one when you’re inexperienced is difficult.
My advice is to find someone who’s an old hand at exporting – [someone] who can
We learnt from scratch – and it was hard. In my experience, the Department of
Trade can be helpful with things such as marketing and PR.
How do you strike a balance between life and work?
I’ve been lucky. It’s a supportive family business, which has allowed me to
take time off from the business to enjoy being a mother. But the business is my
I returned when one [baby] was five-months-old, and the other eight, so that’s
fortunate. Now I manage to do the pickup from school at least a couple of times
a week. I’ve had the luxury of building as much flexibility as possible into my
work. And I think it’s great for my sons to see me working because it’s
My nature means that I will always get involved in the minutiae; I’m a person
who focuses on the details. You will never get the balance right between being
a parent and running a business. You can’t do either 100pc, but you can make
peace with doing the best that you can. Exercising every day keeps me sane:
it’s incredibly important for me to do something active most days. Get that
If you would like to add a comment, please register or log in
    Male hipster sitting in workshop looking off camera
    Join the community today for free business advice and support
    What now for SMEs after triggering Article 50?
    Bought By Many’s co-founder on launching an insurance start-up
    Three tips for turning a business idea into a reality
    Small business minister: Small firms deserve to be paid on time
    When and how should you define the values of a business?
    'A family business should never hide behind an acronym'
    What now for SMEs after triggering Article 50?
    Bought By Many’s co-founder on launching an insurance start-up
    Three tips for turning a business idea into a reality
    Small business minister: Small firms deserve to be paid on time
    When and how should you define the values of a business?
    'A family business should never hide behind an acronym'
    How to tackle annoying office habits at a small business
    Omar Fayed: Environmental impact as important as the bottom line
    Evoke Creative's Dean Ward (right) and Neil Clark
    How constant innovation helps this tech company stay ahead
    What it's really like to start a business at 50 plus
    People holding mobile phones in front of the Twitter logo
    Low-cost ways to add colour and productivity to your workplace
    Three considerations for trading internationally
    My business blogging tips – make it fun and about people, not stats
    Gymbox founder: ‘We set out to be a rebel brand’
Join the community today for free business advice and support
We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you
can continue to access our quality content in the future.
