A busy small business owner at work Busy business owner? Hiring the right
assistance can help you to concentrate on what you do best – running the
Small and medium-sized business owners are realising the advantages of using a
personal assistant, whether it’s by the hour, day or full-time.
An effective personal assistant (PA) can make a big difference to the owner of
a small and medium-sized enterprise (SME). Here, we speak to SMEs with
experience in hiring help, hear from some admin angels, and assess the role of
In 2015, Hays, the recruitment company, surveyed 2,800 PA industry employees
and senior employers from wider sectors about the role. The results claimed
that the reliance on assistants should not be underestimated.
Eighty-five per cent of SME workers said that they would be unable to carry out
their role effectively without a PA. The key areas of responsibility were:
this out; diary management (70pc); and business support (64pc).
Join the community | Share your small business story
For some SME owners, hindsight has shown them how helpful any sort of assistant
would have been in the early stages. Like many new business owners, Paul
MacKenzie-Cummins tried to do everything himself when he set up Clearly PR. But
he found that he spent too long working in the business, rather than on it.
“I estimated that around half of my working week was spent undertaking duties
that could – and should – have been delegated to someone else,” he says.
“Someone evidently better at these things than me.
“It slowed down the rate of growth for the business. However, I now have that
extra resource and the difference it has made both to my weekly workload and
Lynn Morrison works for Opus Energy’s Brighter Business, which provides
business owners with useful advice and information. She has noticed an increase
in the number of young companies on its books that are taking on help to keep
“A strong executive assistant – or personal assistant – can take on much more
than just managing core staff,” she explains, “Many play a major role in
current projects, broader day-to-day company management, HR activities and
Similarly, the trend towards a gig economy is opening up opportunities for
fast, outsourced business support on-tap, including virtual assistants (VAs).  
“Recently, a whole range of digital services have emerged, connecting SMEs with
temporary workers who can help with very specific business needs,” explains
Johan Hedlund, chief executive of education resource, Zeqr.
“This is moving away from the traditional model of hiring one permanent
employee to do a set amount of tasks, towards a model where SMEs can hire
people for an hour, or even minutes, at a time to carry out urgent assistive
While virtual and short-term personal assistants are helpful for some, their
services are limited, admits Barnaby Lashbrooke, founder of virtual PA
platform, Time etc. “A virtual PA can’t greet clients at your office but,
thanks to technology, they can do almost everything else: answer calls, manage
Jane Barrett, co-founder of The Career Farm, an online career development
company, graduated from using a VA to a PA when her business grew.
“I started with a VA to help me with routine and admin parts of my business,
but as it grew, I needed more regular support,” she explains. “The VA was
great, but wasn’t always available or as invested in the business as an actual
"Our current PA is more available and works closer with us."
If you would like to add a comment, please register or log in
    Male hipster sitting in workshop looking off camera
    Join the community today for free business advice and support
    Victoria Brocklesby, co-founder, Origin Doors and Windows
    ‘As you get bigger, the company culture can creak’
    What now for SMEs after triggering Article 50?
    Bought By Many’s co-founder on launching an insurance start-up
    Three tips for turning a business idea into a reality
    Small business minister: Small firms deserve to be paid on time
    When and how should you define the values of a business?
    'A family business should never hide behind an acronym'
    Victoria Brocklesby, co-founder, Origin Doors and Windows
    ‘As you get bigger, the company culture can creak’
    What now for SMEs after triggering Article 50?
    Bought By Many’s co-founder on launching an insurance start-up
    Three tips for turning a business idea into a reality
    Small business minister: Small firms deserve to be paid on time
    When and how should you define the values of a business?
    'A family business should never hide behind an acronym'
    How to tackle annoying office habits at a small business
    Omar Fayed: Environmental impact as important as the bottom line
    Evoke Creative's Dean Ward (right) and Neil Clark
    How constant innovation helps this tech company stay ahead
    What it's really like to start a business at 50 plus
    People holding mobile phones in front of the Twitter logo
    Low-cost ways to add colour and productivity to your workplace
    Three considerations for trading internationally
    My business blogging tips – make it fun and about people, not stats
    Gymbox founder: ‘We set out to be a rebel brand’
Join the community today for free business advice and support
We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you
can continue to access our quality content in the future.
