Pound hits 12-day high against euro after UK jobs report but wage growth stalls
  • Wages after inflation post weakest growth since 2014
  • CBOE Volatility index hits highest level since November
Fidelity: UK earnings figures adds to a cocktail of concerns for consumers
Maike Currie, investment director for personal investing at Fidelity
Internationalthinks the data released this week show" a cocktail of concerns
for the British consumer: from a dramatic fall in non-food high street sales to
a second month of the highest inflation in three years and disappearing wage
    "Taking yesterday’s inflation figures into account, pay growth has all but
    evaporated in the three months to February with workers’ total earnings
    including bonuses rising by 2.3pc - the same number as UK consumer price
Currie added that households are starting to feel the squeeze of rising prices
and stagnant earnings just as the Brexit talks kick off.
    Real pay growth falls to 0.1% - but pay packets are already shrinking in
    sectors representing 40% of the workforce pic.twitter.com/nqfLYSP6us
    — ResolutionFoundation (@resfoundation) April 12, 2017
Weighing in on the jobs reports, Secretary of State Damian Green said the data
    “More people are finding full-time jobs and average wages have grown yet
    again, meaning more families have the security of a regular wage.
    “However, there is always more to do. That’s why we’re creating a welfare
    system that rewards work through Universal Credit, which helps claimants
    The unemployment rate is at its lowest level since 2005 pic.twitter.com/
    — DWP Press Office (@dwppressoffice) April 12, 2017
Is the UK labour market suffering from Brexit fever?
The pound may have cleared the 1.25 hurdle on the back of the UK labour market
report for February and March, Kathleen Brooks, of City Index, thinks the
labour market data had some worrying pockets of weakness: 
 1. Jobless claims: largest increase since 2011: The chief concerns are the
    rise in jobless claims, which surged by 25,500 in March – the month that
    the UK government triggered Article 50. This was the largest monthly
    increase in claims since 2011. Although one month’s data does not make a
    trend, it does suggest that we could have reached peak employment in the
    UK, and as we progress through 2-years of Brexit negotiations, we may see
 2. Why the UK consumer may still expect a squeeze: The spread between UK wage
    growth and UK CPI, which fell to 0pc in February. This means that for the
    first time since 2014 there hasn’t been a squeeze on the consumer. But, the
    good news might end there. Although GBP/USD jumped on the back of today’s
    labour market data, the gains may not be sustainable.
 3. The impact on sterling: Overall, we think that this month’s labour market
    data isn’t enough to significantly boost the pound. The Feb/ March UK jobs
    report is showing some signs that Brexit is starting to hit the labour
    market.  In the interim the pound is being driven by broader market forces,
    namely rising levels of risk aversion. GBP/JPY spiked on the labour market
    data but is now backing off highs, and this pair remains 1% lower on the
    week, suggesting that the pound could be vulnerable if markets go into
    full-blown panic mode over Russia/ US and North Korea fears.
Here's how the experts reacted to the latest UK jobs report, which showed real
Ben Brettell, of Hargreaves Lansdown, said: "With inflation forecast to carry
on rising – the Bank of England predicts a peak around 2.8pc early next year -
real wages are likely to start falling soon, squeezing household budgets. The
UK economy is heavily reliant on consumer spending and this could prove a
headwind for economic growth as we move through the year."
    The UK economy's most depressing chart. The worst 10 years for real pay
    growth since 1853-1862. Likely to get even worse. pic.twitter.com/
    — Rupert Seggins (@Rupert_Seggins) April 12, 2017
 Ian Kernohan, economist at Royal London Asset Management, said: "There are few
signs of any upward pressure on wages. Therefore, we would expect the Bank of
England to keep interest rates on hold tihs year, as households face a real
Meanwhile, Samuel Tombs, of Pantheon Macroeconomics, says the wage growth just
    "Households are being caught in a perfect storm of rising inflation and
    slowing labour income growth. Employment was just 39,000, or 0.1pc, higher
    in the three months to February than in the previous three months,
    significantly below the 0.5pc average increase seen in the three
    years before the referendum. Firms also cut full-time roles by 107, 000
    over this period, in favour of creating part-time roles, up 109K. This is
    hardly a vote of confidence in the economic outlook. In addition, growth in
    self-employment has slowed to just 0.1pc in the three months to February,
    perhaps indicating that fewer people are willing to take financial risks in
    New independent stats show the number of people in work has risen in every
    region and nation of the UK since 2010 pic.twitter.com/TvFWHViPuM
    — DWP Press Office (@dwppressoffice) April 12, 2017
TUC General Secretary Frances O’Grady notes that pay packets are taking a
hammering from rising inflation and falling wage growth. 
    “We now need urgent action to stop another living standards crisis. Working
    people will want to know when Theresa May is going to do something to help.
    “We need more investment in skills and infrastructure to build strong
    foundations for better paid jobs. And it’s time to scrap the pay
    restrictions hitting midwives, teachers and other public servants.”
    Troubling picture on pay despite good jobs performance; fast growth in
    hours worked, employment at record high & unemployment falls by 45000
    — ResolutionFoundation (@resfoundation) April 12, 2017
    Adam Chester, Head of Economics at Lloyds Bank Commercial Banking said: “
    Today’s UK labour market figures paint a mixed picture. Although the
    unemployment rate held at a twelve-year low of 4.7pc, the pace of
    employment growth in the three months to February slowed from 92k to 39k.
    “It could be that the slowdown is a reflection of growing labour shortages,
    although  it also chimes  with the weakening of labour demand reported in
    “The stability of wage growth adds some credence to the latter, with
    regular pay slipping from an upwardly revised 2.4pc to 2.2pc in the latest
    “Overall, today’s figures were broadly in line with market expectations.
    Initial reaction saw the pound and bond yields spiking higher. But these
    moves have since been largely reversed, with today’s report adding little
Real regular pay growth falls  -0.4pc in February 
Although real regular pay growth rose by only 0.1pc year-on-year in the three
months to February, economist Rupert Seggins points out that the single month
    Inflation bites back as real regular pay growth grew only 0.1%y/y in the 3
    months to Feb. The single month rate was -0.4%y/y. pic.twitter.com/
    — Rupert Seggins (@Rupert_Seggins) April 12, 2017
UK households are now grappling with a sharp rise in prices which have been
exacerbated by the pound's plunge following the EU referendum last June. 
Forecasters had already predicted that pay growth in real-terms would disappear
later this year. However, today's data shows that wage growth has already
Yesterday, data from the ONS showed that consumer price inflation held steady
at 2.3pc in the 12 months to March. However, the Bank of England expects it to
Meanwhile, ING noted the  UK jobs report was "bad news for households" as wage
    Key takeaway from #UK labour report: wage growth now less than inflation -
    — ING Economics (@ING_Economics) April 12, 2017
    If you looked at employment rates, unemployment rates and the record-high
    number of job vacancies, you wouldn't expect stagnant real wages
Reaction: UK employment report confirms real wages are now negative in the UK
As UK real wages roll into negative territory for the first time since 2014, 
Jeremy Cook, chief economist at the international payments company, World
    “The inevitable has happened. Inflation has finally overtaken wages and the
    man in the street is now finding his pay packet unable to keep up with
    price increases for the first time since August 2014. This may be a
    one-month occurrence; we need to see what impact the new living wage has on
    earnings in the coming releases but on the belief that yesterday’s
    inflation hold at 2.3pc was a statistical blip thanks to this year’s late
    Easter and not the end of the near-term inflationary uptrend we have to
    think that any respite on the consumer will be temporary.”
    Real wages rolling into negative territory in the UK for the first time
    “The triangle of Brexit impact on consumer spending – wages vs inflation vs
    consumer credit – is very uneven at the moment. Spending will give way
    should wages or consumer credit maintain their recent declines if price
    rises continue. Our findings from yesterday’s PPI report suggest that price
    pressures of 15-20pc remain in many consumer facing industries courtesy of
    “Sterling is slightly higher on the news as wages only fell to 2.2pc as
    opposed to the consensus reading of 2.1pc  but nobody should be taking this
    The U.K's two glorious, unforgettable years of real wage growth are over.
    Austerity and gruel from here on out, lads. pic.twitter.com/vGKmOgSj7K
Here are the key charts relating to earnings from the ONS data release: 
Figure 1: Average weekly earnings regular whole economy pay: real and nominal,
Figure 1- Average weekly earnings regular whole economy pay- real and nominal,
Figure 1- Average weekly earnings regular whole economy pay- real and nominal,
 Figure 2: Average weekly earnings total pay- real and nominal, seasonally
Figure 2- Average weekly earnings total pay- real and nominal, seasonally
Figure 3:  Average weekly earnings total and regular real pay annual growth
Average weekly earnings total and regular real pay annual growth rates,
Average weekly earnings total and regular real pay annual growth rates,
Figure 4:  Average weekly earnings total pay by contributions
Average weekly earnings total pay by contributions
Average weekly earnings total pay by contributions Credit: ONS
Regular pay increases by 0.1pc, the lowest annual growth rate since
Delving into the earnings figures from the ONS data release, here are the key
 1. Average total pay for employees  in nominal terms increased from £380 a
    week in January 2005 to £509 a week in February 2017; an increase of 34pc.
    Over the same period the Consumer Prices Index including owner occupiers’
 2. Between the three months to February 2016 and the three months to February
    2017 in real terms (that is, adjusted for consumer price inflation) regular
    pay for employee increased by 0.1pc, the lowest annual growth rate since
    July to September 2014 (when regular pay in real terms fell by
 3. Between the three months to February 2016 and the three months to February
    2017 in real terms (that is, adjusted for consumer price inflation) total
    pay for employees in Great Britain increased by 0.2pc, the lowest growth
Here are the key charts from the ONS jobs release: 
Figure 1: This chart shows the latest estimates, for the three months to
February 2017, for employment, unemployment and economic inactivity and show
how these estimates compare with the previous quarter (September to November
2016) and the previous year (the three months to February 2016).
Figure 1- Quarterly and annual changes in the number of people in the UK labour
Figure 1- Quarterly and annual changes in the number of people in the UK labour
 Figure 2: This shows the employment rates for people, men and women aged from
16 to 64 since comparable records began in 1971.  
Figure 2- UK Employment rates (aged 16 to 64), seasonally adjusted
Figure 2- UK Employment rates (aged 16 to 64), seasonally adjusted Credit: ONS
Figure 3: This chart looks in more detail at the employment rate for people for
Figure 3- UK Employment rate (people aged 16 to 64), seasonally adjusted
Figure 3- UK Employment rate (people aged 16 to 64), seasonally adjusted 
Figure 4:This chart compares the annual growth rates for both regular and total
Great Britain average earnings annual growth rates, seasonally adjusted
Great Britain average earnings annual growth rates, seasonally adjusted Credit:
Data released from the ONS showed that the UK unemployment rate remained
unchanged in the three months to February but that UK wage growth after
inflation almost disappeared. Here are the key takeaways: 
 1. There were 31.84m people in work, 39,000 more than for September to
    November 2016 and 312,000 more than for a year earlier.
 2. The employment rate was 74.6pc, the joint highest since comparable records
 3. There were 1.56m unemployed people, 45,000 fewer than for September to
    November 2016 and 141,000 fewer than for a year earlier.
 5. Average weekly earnings for employees in nominal terms increased by 2.3pc
    including bonuses and by 2.2pc excluding bonuses, compared with a year
 6. Average weekly earnings for employees increased by 0.2pc including bonuses,
    and by 0.1pc excluding bonuses, compared with a year earlier.
Wages after inflation posts weakest growth since 2014
In the three months to February, wages after inflation grew at 0.2pc compared
to the previous year and 0.1pc excluding bonuses, marking its weakest growth
    For Dec-Feb 2017 wages, after inflation, up 0.2% on a yr inc bonuses and
    0.1% exc bonuses, weakest growth since 2014 https://t.co/00HTZzteRH
Workers' total earnings including bonuses rose by an annual 2.3pc in the three
months to February, unchanged from the previous period, the Office for National
    For Dec-Feb 2017 wages up 2.3% on a year including bonuses and 2.2%
    excluding bonuses https://t.co/6jbzYPxniT pic.twitter.com/7PJCcfSWUc
Data released yesterday showed consumer price inflation stood at 2.3pc in the
12 months to March and the BoE expects it to approach 2.7pc by the end of this
Breaking: UK unemployment rate steady at 4.7pc  but wage growth after inflation
The UK unemployment remained steady at 4.7pc in the three months to February
data from the Office for National Statistics showed this morning. 
    #Unemployment rate (for people aged 16+) 4.7% for Dec-Feb 2017; last time
    lower was 1975 https://t.co/9VFCL4lX4z pic.twitter.com/Rj5SEGNiNu
 However, wage growth all but disappeared after accounting for inflation. 
The ONS said workers' total earnings including bonuses rose by an annual 2.3pc
in the three months to February, unchanged from the previous period. But after
taking into account inflation, total pay growth rose just 0.2pc and when
bonuses were excluded it rose by just 0.1pc over the same period. 
    Latest UK employment report confirms real wages are now negative in the UK.
United Airlines shares hit turbulence as passenger backlash grows
Shares in United Airlines' parent company suffered a bumpy ride on Tuesday as
the worldwide backlash over its forcible removal of a passenger continued.
United Continental closed down 1.1pc at $70.71 (£56.61), after falling as much
as 4.4pc earlier. The company shed as much as $1bn in market value before
ending the day with a loss of about $250m. More than 16 million United shares
changed hands, the most for any session in a year.
United has faced enormous pressure after video went viral of a passenger being
dragged from his seat on a plane on Sunday to make room for four employees on
Gold rallied to a five-month high this morning, extending its gains from the
previous session, as investors piled into safe-haven assets as geopolitical
tensions rose over the relations between the US and North Korea and Russia. 
    Naeem Aslam, of Think Markets, said: "Geopolitical uncertainty is
    unwrapping the market from its cloud of anxiety and ambiguity. Traders are
    shifting some of their focus from the potential threats coming the
    heightened escalation of situation between the US and North Korea. 
    Tensions were upped a notch higher after North Korea threatened a nuclear
The precious metal was trading at $1,274 per ounce, having hit its strongest
level since November 10 of $1,279.80 in early trade. 
French election nerves are also weighing on investors, as French centrist
Emmanuel Macron and far-right leader Marine Le Pen clung on as frontrunners
    Gold has hit trendline resistance after big rally. Shooting star candle
    overnight could point towards retracement from here #XAUUSD pic.twitter.com
The pound hit a one-week high against a weaker dollar this morning as investors
The pound rose 0.14pc to $1.2500, its highest level since April 6. 
Analysts expect  no change to January's 4.7pc unemployment rate when figures
for February come out at 9.30am, but average earnings numbers excluding bonuses
    "The persistent erosion of the real purchasing power of the UK consumer
    should over time become an important headwind for domestic demand and
    growth. The risk of stagflation should continue to haunt sterling and make
    it unattractive investment in our view," Credit Agricole strategists wrote
Spoof books boost WH Smith as travel business continues to outweigh high street
Shares in retailer WH Smith have edged up 0.16pc this morning after it posted a
3.75pc rise in half-year pre-tax profits. Sam Dean has the details: 
The ongoing interest in spoof humour books and continued success in its travel
division helped WH Smith record a 4pc jump in profits.
In its results for the six months to February 28, the retailer said profits
before tax had climbed to £83m, up from £80m in the same period last year.
However, there continues to be a divergence between its expanding travel
business and its high street stores. Profits were up 11pc to £39m in the travel
arm, which operates in airports and train stations, but were flat on the high
Sales were up 10pc in travel, but down 4pc on the high street. On a
like-for-like basis, travel sales rose 5pc and high street sales were down 3pc.
Tesco unveils first UK sales growth for seven years
Shares in Tesco have tumbled to the bottom of the blue chip index, down 2pc at
191.8p, despite unveiling its first UK sales growth for seven years. Our retail
Tesco has claimed that its turnaround plan is ahead of schedule after unveiling
its first rise in UK sales for seven years while profits have broken through
Dave Lewis, chief executive, said that the results delivered fresh evidence
that Britain's biggest retailer was "completely focused and committed" to
reviving its UK business, in a move to allay concerns that its £3.7bn Booker
The supermarket chain posted a 29.9pc jump in group operating profits and
exceptional items to £1.3bn for the year to the end of February, while group
sales, which include its overseas operations, rose by 3.7pc to £55.9bn in the
However, pre-tax profits fell to £145m from £202m as the grocer booked a £235m
charge after agreeing to pay a£129m fine tothe Serious Fraud Office following a
lengthy investigation into the accounting scandal in 2014 that dragged Tesco
European bourses open higher lead by oil and carmakers stocks
European bourses regained momentum today after rising geopolitical risks
weighed on indices yesterday. Carmakers and energy stocks led shares in the
     Henry Croft, of Accendo Markets, said: "Calls for a slightly firmer
    open come as global risk-off sentiment continues into the European open,
    following further safe-haven flight during the Asian trading session,
    however concerns of rising geopolitical tensions may have been somewhat
    eased by a US clarification of its position on the Syrian conflict. Rising
    Crude Oil prices are helping to provide some support to the wider
    commodities market following the first easing of Chinese producer inflation
South Korean won and stocks recover as investors digest North Korea risks
The South Korean won and shares recovered from a six-day decline as investor
The won  was quoted at 1,141.4 to the dollar at the conclusion of onshore
trade, up 0.4pc compared to Tuesday's close of 1,145.8.
The Korea Composite Stock Price Index closed up 0.2pc at 2,128.81 points.
Offshore investors ended a seven-day run of selling KOSPI shares and purchased
The premium for South Korean credit default swaps (CDS), however, rose to its
highest level in nine months on Wednesday, as investors viewed the country's
sovereign notes as a riskier bet given elevated tensions between North Korea
Good morning and welcome to our live markets coverage. 
Last night, US stocks ended the trading session down, but well off their lows,
as geopolitical tensions  in Syria and North Korea weighed on investor
The heightened geopolitical concerns pushed the CBOE Volatility index, Wall
Street's fear gauge, which closed above 15 for the first time since Trump's
Meanwhile, overnight China stocks slipped on softer producer inflation
data. The blue-chip CSI300 index dipped 0.2pc to 3,509.44, while the Shanghai
    Good morning from Berlin. Asia drops as risk off continues though not
    incremental occurred. Possibility NK carries out 6th nucl test weighs.
    — Holger Zschaepitz (@Schuldensuehner) April 12, 2017
In London, the UK jobs report is the main event, which will be published at
9.30am. Headline unemployment is seen holding steady at a record low of 4.7pc,
while the employment rate expected to cool to 70,000 from 92,000 in the
However, Connor Campbell, of SpreadEx, says: "The UK jobs report does have a
challenger for market dominance this Wednesday: Trump."
The US President will be interviewed on the Fox Business Network later today,
in an interview "that promises to cover everything from healthcare and tax
reform to his actions in Syria and the increasingly fractious relationships
    "All of this is catnip for investors, and may end up overshadowing the
    reaction to that British jobs data," Mr Campbell added. 
    I will be interviewed by @MariaBartiromo at 6:00 A.M. @FoxBusiness. Enjoy!
    — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) April 12, 2017
On the corporate calendar, Britain's biggest retailer, Tesco, beat forecasts
for full-year profit, showing its recovery is picking up pace.
    Tesco better than expected - for the year Group sales £49bn +4.3%, LFL
    sales for year +0.9%, FOOD +1.3% - Debt -27% - profit +30% at £1.28bn
Trading update: Dunelm Group, PageGroup, Low & Bonar, WS Atkins, Countryside
Economics: Unemployment rate (UK), average earnings index 3m/y (UK), claimant
    opening calls FTSE 100 unchanged - DAX +20, CAC +8 courtesy of IG
If you would like to add a comment, please register or log in
    From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in history
    Gallery: From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in
    Gallery: Public relations nightmares: is United Airlines' removal of a
    Gallery: All the major high street brands that have collapsed since the
    Akzo Nobel has come under increasing pressure from shareholders
    AkzoNobel reports shareholder Elliott to financial authorities following
    Thanks for the advice, but no thanks: BHP Billiton dismisses 'flawed'
    UK unemployment down again but pay growth stalls
    Spoof books boost WH Smith as travel business continues to outweigh high
    From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in history
    Gallery: From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in
    Panmure Gordon boss to leave following Bob Diamond takeover 
    United Airlines shares hit turbulence as passenger backlash grows
    Tesco is hoping to win over shareholders with its rise in profits and sales
    Tesco unveils first UK sales growth for seven years
    Gallery: Public relations nightmares: is United Airlines' removal of a
    Questor: buy JD Sports for its unique relationships with the major sports
    Cyber attacks knock millions off FTSE share prices
    Comment: The UK can continue to be a world leader in fintech
    Fred Goodwin in court as 'misleading' RBS faces wrath of shareholders
    Comment: Barclays must once again prove it can save itself 
    Comment: JD Sports leaves Sports Direct in the shade
    Technology and the internet risk fuelling a surge in migration and
    Barclays investors warn 'entirely possible' regulators will force out boss
    Soaring Trump dollar risks global trade war and China currency crisis,
    Britain's essential role in global aerospace may come under pressure from
    Openreach aims to accelerate broadband upgrades in talks with BT rivals
    Offices of the FCA, Financial Conduct Authority at Canary Wharf, London
    UK watchdog sets out advice rules to protect young savers and elderly
We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you
can continue to access our quality content in the future.
