Woman holding a GB flag Flying the flag: the Government has a vital role to
play in building trust in British business, thinks Simon Squibb, founder of
SME owners and entrepreneurs remain divided on the opportunities and risks that
will come once Britain leaves the European Union, but the show must go on.
In two years from now, the UK will leave the European Union – that much is
But while the “when” of Brexit has been established, the exact nature of how
and what the remaining relationship with European trading partners will be, has
Statistics suggest that owners of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are
split on Brexit. According to a survey in March of 1,000 SME leaders released
by Bibby Financial Services, more than a third (34pc) expect it to have a
negative impact on their business; close to half (42pc) expect the change to
make no difference at all; while 17pc stated that Brexit is likely to have a
For Kitronik, a Nottingham-based electronics company, a focus on exports during
the Brexit uncertainty and currency fluctuations has helped drive growth;
turnover increased from £1.3m to £2.5m (92.3pc) in the last financial year,
leading to eight new hires at its Basford headquarters.
Join the community | Share your small business story
Kevin Spurr, co-founder of the firm, says that plans for his company have
changed very little since Article 50. “Until we have concrete plans in place
from the Government as to the Brexit deal, we will be sticking to our existing
However, over the next two years, Kitronik does intend to focus on building
partnership with overseas distributors. The company specialises in developing
electronic project kits and learning resources for schools and home
hobbyists. “Much of our faster growth is in the export market. Particular areas
of focus for us are the US and France. We currently have little exposure to the
US, and we’re actively looking to change that,” he adds.
The falling strength of the pound has cranked up production costs, while making
And while the company may be thriving overall, Mr Spurr is eager for clarity on
the trading relationship with the EU as soon as possible: “This isn’t just
Article 50’s triggering has simply accelerated European expansion plans for
Damian Kimmelman, chief executive and co-founder of London-based technology
company, DueDil, which catalogues private company information.
`We’re likely to see the levels of inherent trust towards businesses from other
“Clearly trade must continue if we’re to create thriving businesses and
prosperous economies,” he says. “DueDil provides the context that helps
businesses find opportunities and mitigate risks, and there’s a real
opportunity for us to play a role in facilitating cross-border trade.”
While he says that Brexit will increase interest in some of DueDil’s services
(it recently expanded its coverage to an additional 29 million businesses
across France, Germany, Benelux and the Nordics, with more to follow), Mr
Kimmelman is concerned by the business risks that could come with an
“Private companies are the lifeblood of the UK and European economy. Yet as a
result of Brexit and nationalism, countries are becoming politically and
culturally more insular in their mindset. I think we’re likely to see the
levels of inherent trust towards businesses from other countries dwindle,” he
He also believes that Government has a vital role, since triggering Article 50,
to redouble efforts to open up cross-border opportunities for trade during the
two-year window pre-exit, and build trust in British business.
Simon Squibb, entrepreneur, angel investor and founder of Hong Kong-based
accelerator firm, Nest, returned to do business in his native UK after being
attracted by post-Article 50 opportunities. He believes that companies can
thrive by capitalising on Brexit-related uncertainty, drawing comparisons with
the business climate during the return of Hong Kong to Chinese sovereignty.
“I saw first-hand how Hong Kong has evolved since sovereignty was handed back
to China from the UK in 1997. In many ways, the UK is on a similar path today.
London and Hong Kong are both international financial services hubs, attractive
markets for entrepreneurs and big brands, and desirable places for great talent
He suggests that the UK Government could learn from Hong Kong’s experience by
making large-scale investment in infrastructure programmes and ensuring
continuity by not changing strong intellectual property protection, financial
    Male hipster sitting in workshop looking off camera
    Join the community today for free business advice and support
    Victoria Brocklesby, co-founder, Origin Doors and Windows
    ‘As you get bigger, the company culture can creak’
    Bought By Many’s co-founder on launching an insurance start-up
    Three tips for turning a business idea into a reality
    Small business minister: Small firms deserve to be paid on time
    When and how should you define the values of a business?
    'A family business should never hide behind an acronym'
    Victoria Brocklesby, co-founder, Origin Doors and Windows
    ‘As you get bigger, the company culture can creak’
    Bought By Many’s co-founder on launching an insurance start-up
    Three tips for turning a business idea into a reality
    Small business minister: Small firms deserve to be paid on time
    When and how should you define the values of a business?
    'A family business should never hide behind an acronym'
    How to tackle annoying office habits at a small business
    Omar Fayed: Environmental impact as important as the bottom line
    Evoke Creative's Dean Ward (right) and Neil Clark
    How constant innovation helps this tech company stay ahead
    What it's really like to start a business at 50 plus
    People holding mobile phones in front of the Twitter logo
    Low-cost ways to add colour and productivity to your workplace
    Three considerations for trading internationally
    My business blogging tips – make it fun and about people, not stats
    Gymbox founder: ‘We set out to be a rebel brand’
Join the community today for free business advice and support
If you would like to add a comment, please register or log in
We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you
can continue to access our quality content in the future.
