    just 18... but what were Messi, Henry and the Ronaldos doing at his age?
    departs after agreeing deal to sell to Chinese investors for £628m
    the title race, so wouldn't it help to get their transfer business done
    attack... and questions the decision to play match so soon
    And is Mbappe really as good as Arsenal legend Henry?
    old rival reveals anger at spitting on course and throwing shoes
    so, how many more games will he play in under Mourinho?
    to Munich (No 100), where the star struck on way to his century
    Carlos as Leicester have warm-down session at Madrid rivals' training
    defeat with Liverpool forward Coutinho top of summer wishlist
    defeat against Atletico to reach Champions League semi-finals
    loss to Real Madrid... but they are a formidable hurricane of arrogance and
    Player of the Year shortlist for (but there's no place for Spurs star Alli)
    football in this world... I will never forget the faces': Sahin's emotional
    explain his continued exile from international football
    ignored': Tuchel not happy with decision to make Dortmund play
    make a splash in the during holiday on 'Spring Break'
    academy transfer ban forces them to look abroad
    stop the goals going in to see results improve
Slow starts are costing Tottenham in the title race, so wouldn't it help to get
their transfer business done early for once? And why Arsenal's board should NOT
  • Rory McIlroy's driving cost him at the Masters; and there was too much
  • International sport is suffering due to pointlessly relaxed nationality
  • You cannot compare Eden Hazard's slump with that of Lionel Messi in 2010
  • And why Arsenal and Spurs should consider changing their modus operandi
Published: 09:53, 13 April 2017 | Updated: 09:53, 13 April 2017
Stick to the soap opera of the Premier League, Martin. You embarrass yourself
when you try to talk about another sport. EConan, London.
The journalist in question does not appear to comprehend the game. Steven,
The first golf tournament I covered was the Open Championship at St Andrews in
1990 when Nick Faldo won. I remember that because I was a late addition to our
reporting team, and had to get a taxi up there from Leeds in the middle of the
night, having been interviewing John Lukic. I arrived wearing my ‘going home on
the train’ clothes which comprised, as I recall, jeans and a T-shirt that said
‘North West Republican Army’. The first job, when the shops opened, was to buy
Anyway, I’m not the sort to keep souvenirs or records, but looking at a list of
winners to jog my memory, I’d guess that since then I’ve done about 20 Opens,
five Masters, the US Open in 2001, 2011, 2013 and 2015, plus the 1993 Ryder Cup
and then each of the last eight, bar Valhalla. Been about for some good stuff,
too. I was there for the Tiger Slam at Augusta, the Miracle at Medinah and Rory
McIlroy and Justin Rose’s US Open wins. I was there for Bubba Watson’s first
Masters and both of Jordan Spieth’s major victories, and when John Daly won at
Rory McIlroy's wayward driving at the Masters put him in some awkward spots
Rory McIlroy's wayward driving at the Masters put him in some awkward spots
Rory McIlroy's wayward driving at the Masters put him in some awkward spots
    sports stars have to stand up for their country as the...
And no, as the chief sports writer, I’m not immersed in golf like our
outstanding correspondent, Derek Lawrenson, and wouldn’t claim to have his
expertise. But I’ve been around enough of it to know that if you’re only
hitting 35 per cent of fairways, as McIlroy did over his first two rounds at
Augusta – the poorest driving accuracy in the competition – it is going to be
This seems to be the point the posters above were disputing, although it turns
out I wasn’t wrong after all. I do hope neither the patronising Steven nor
Conan the quarterwit backed their expertise with hard cash at the bookmakers.
Anyway, just so I don’t embarrass myself further we’ll be sticking – mainly –
to the soap opera of the Premier League, after this. Not that the above posters
would know too much about that, either. I think we all know where their
Point one: about the gradual demise of international sport.
I think part of the reason why international sport is dying is because
international allegiance is dying. The Domingos Quina situation you cite is a
good example. He may qualify for England, but he’s not English. Representation
at international level is so fluid these days that it impacts on the
credibility of the concept. There are good reasons why an athlete may change
countries, but it still dilutes international competition. It always makes me
laugh when commentators talk about Mo Farah as a British athlete competing
against a largely African field in long distance running. In all ways that
matter for his sport, Farah is himself, African. Bernie Bayou, Madrid.
International sport can’t be saved when it is undermined for business needs. I
don't give a damn about international sport because it is already without
meaning. It is one collection of individuals who hail from all over the world
versus another lot built the same way. About the only thing that’s different is
the pyjamas they play in and the prices the marketing men charge the mug
punters. It’s impossible to get passionate about that, which is why it will die
for everyone but the clapping seals. Steve Saint, Northampton.
And the players, Steve. Not all of them, of course. Some are out for
themselves, but there are plenty who still care greatly about playing for their
country – which has been the reaction to the NHL’s decision to boycott the ice
hockey event at the 2018 Olympics, as I pointed out in Monday’s column. 
But I agree, relaxing nationality rules to the brink of pointlessness has, over
time, had a negative effect on international sport, which is a subject I have
been tackling for many years now. In that time, I’ve been called everything
from xenophobic to straight-out racist by people who weren’t bright enough to
understand the argument. It has to be the best of yours against the best of
theirs and, if it is not, the essence of the competition has
gone. International sport is now run by ultra-pragmatists who have pushed the
rules to the limit and will, ultimately, suffer the consequences. 
I agree with Bernie, too. All I would say on Farah, however, is that although
he was born in Africa, his country of birth – Somalia – has no pedigree in
distance running. I think it does him a great disservice to put his success
down purely to genetics. Sadly, due to the civil war, there are a great many
Somalian refugees across the world. There is only, however, one Mo Farah.
Hazard was off just once in his career, which happened to be most of last year,
but Martin the all-knowing says he’s an on and off player. Can someone tell him
Messi went a World Cup without a goal? Is he also on and off? Delsy, London.
He’s less consistent for Argentina than he has been for Barcelona but, no,
Messi’s form at the World Cup in 2010 does not make him an on-off player. For a
start, World Cups are short – a month in duration, eight matches maximum. A
player can have a bad run of games, or a poor month, certainly at the end of a
demanding season in Europe. It is not unusual for the best players in the world
to arrive at the competition tired, or carrying injury. 
Hazard’s slump was much more dramatic, longer lasting and, frankly, suspicious.
Out of form, Messi still looks the same player, just not as effective; Hazard
was unrecognisable beside the player we have watched this season or in
And one final point. In 2010, while Messi did not score, he assisted in six of
Argentina’s 16 goals and was named, rightly or wrongly, in FIFA’s short-list of
10 for player of the tournament. How long would a short-list for player of the
season for 2015-16 have to be to include the name Hazard? I’m guessing 300 or
A dejected Lionel Messi with Diego Maradona during his disappointing World Cup
A dejected Lionel Messi with Diego Maradona during his disappointing World Cup
Eden Hazard slumps during his season to forget for Chelsea in 2015-16
Eden Hazard slumps during his season to forget for Chelsea in 2015-16
A dejected Lionel Messi with Diego Maradona during his disappointing World Cup
in 2010 (left); and Eden Hazard slumps during his season to forget for Chelsea
Point three: about Arsenal, and matters arising because let’s face it, on the
You called it a six horse race. So, if Arsenal were tenth, should we call it
ten horse race? As if Arsenal have a chance of winning the title in sixth
The six horse race statement referred to clubs that could have title ambitions
when the season began; it was not a comment about the league now. I think the
title is Chelsea’s, at best a two-horse race if Tottenham can gain ground. Yet
at the start of the season, ruling out a challenge from the reigning champions
Leicester or another club like them, I’d say Manchester United, Manchester
City, Tottenham, Arsenal, Chelsea and Liverpool all considered themselves in a
title race – and maybe Everton, although I’m not sure I’d agree. So a six-horse
Sixth? Jurgen Klopp came eighth last season and he is hailed as a genius.
Playing one game a week, Liverpool should be at the top with Chelsea. Method
Yes, but considering the money spent they are doing well, and if he can qualify
for the Champions League it will have been a good season. He was one match away
from it last year too, remember, having reached the Europa League final. 
I would expect Liverpool to improve again next year. It is fashionable to knock
Klopp now, or to compare his record with that of Brendan Rodgers – but give
Klopp Luis Suarez and Raheem Sterling, as Rodgers had, and he may well be on
Any excuse for a bit of Method Man, though, if that was a hint. This is also
for Brian who very kindly puts this page together every week and is partial to
a bit of the Chemicals. Little bit fruity with the language, mind you (Method
Man, not Brian). Don’t click if that might offend you.
‘A replacement would cost more,’ you say. Apart from the two in Manchester,
Wenger earns substantially more than any other manager in the Premier League. I
believe a replacement would be less expensive although he might spend more on
That was what I meant when I wrote a replacement for Wenger would cost more. I
wasn’t talking salary, but the cost of overhauling his team. Whatever savings
were made on Wenger’s salary – and having as good as built the stadium, doesn’t
he deserve it? – would be dwarfed by the outlay in the transfer market.
Of course it can get worse. The people who think it couldn’t if Wenger goes
constantly forget about what happened to Liverpool, liquidated Leeds or
relegated Nottingham Forest. And look at Manchester United - £500m blown and
the problem still unsolved. Yes, it could get worse. Sir Jose Van Moyes, Stoke.
I think you’re the one with memory issues, Sir Jose. Liverpool haven’t won the
league in the modern Premier League era, but they have been champions of
Europe, and any failings certainly haven’t been caused by ditching the manager.
The same with Leeds, who never went into liquidation by the way –
administration is very different – and fell through the divisions due to
financial mismanagement, not the loss of a manager. As for Forest, they were
relegated with a waning Brian Clough in charge, which is the precise opposite
Arsene Wenger is feeling the strain of another failed title challenge with
Arsene Wenger is feeling the strain of another failed title challenge with
Arsene Wenger is feeling the strain of another failed title challenge with
Arsenal are actually joint sixth with the team you’re not allowed to mention. 
Indeed. And Manchester United were joint champions in 2011-12, yes? Ever heard
of something called goal difference? Arsenal are sixth and Everton seventh
Arsenal do not necessarily need to go for a big name manager, either. There is
talk of Massimiliano Allegri at Juventus – but why would they part with him and
why would he want to come to Arsenal? Closer to home are Marco Silva at Hull or
Eddie Howe at Bournemouth. Young managers with Premier League experience,
managing thin squads on a budget and performing miracles. James Young, Epsom.
James, Arsenal would simply be asking for another David Moyes situation. Get a
proven manager, or at least try. If they make a mistake and appoint a dud,
there will be trouble as this board wouldn’t want to spend their way out of it.
Both are fair points. I think the bottom line is, whether the target is
Allegri, Silva, Howe or whoever, the board should not be fearful of replacing
Wenger in case the situation is made worse. Of course, it may get worse before
it gets better, but there is no guarantee of that. If Chelsea win the league it
will mean three of the last four title winning managers in English football
were in their first season at the club. Manuel Pellegrini, Claudio Ranieri and
Antonio Conte. Why is it presumed a change will take Arsenal backwards? 
Equally, I wouldn’t dismiss Howe or Silva just because Moyes failed at
Manchester United. They followed that with a stellar appointment, Louis van
Gaal, and he was no great improvement. Even Jose Mourinho does not come with a
guarantee. He will get it right at United, I’m sure, but it will take time.
Arsenal supporters were very patient with Wenger, and may have to be again.
All this remembrance blah is getting very tiresome. Yes, it’s important to
honour the dead but it shouldn’t become the whole show. Sport seems to be
turning into a remembrance championship where every committee competes to see
who can put on the most grandiose show of sadness. Ledley King, London.
I love golf but have to say the constant hand wringing over Seve Ballesteros
drives me crazy. He died, he was respectfully remembered, now let’s move on.
The entire Ryder Cup was dominated with tributes and players pointing at badges
or to the sky, then during the Masters you could not see a Spanish golfer on
screen without someone mentioning the ghost of Seve. Even after Sergio Garcia
won they immediately starting showing montages of Seve. It all seems
unnecessary and certainly too mushy for me. Sonicboom 208, Southampton.
Agreed; agreed. The levels of schmaltz at the Masters this year came close to
devaluing the achievements of the players. It was as if the whole competition
was written in the stars. I feel the same about periods of silence for
unrelated events at football matches. It is not for football to remember the
dead of Westminster. It is nothing to do with football.
Martin, can you please send a copy of your commentary over to Daniel Levy at
White Hart Lane? Our financial genius has cost us league positions over many
years by not having a full squad by the start of the season. The late close of
the transfer window and Levy’s over-hyped bargaining skills see key personnel
brought in late year after year, by which time, as you say, the race is over.
Having got the beginning wrong, when it is time to correct or bolster the team
he invariably fails also. For the second season in a row he has not brought in
anybody of substance to back Harry Kane which leaves Spurs vulnerable. Zigman,
Spurs chairman Daniel Levy has a habit of completing transfer business late in
Spurs chairman Daniel Levy has a habit of completing transfer business late in
Spurs chairman Daniel Levy has a habit of completing transfer business late in
I’m with you, Ziggy. This season, for instance, I was perplexed that it took
Tottenham until September 1 to sign Moussa Sissoko, when he had being looking
to get out of Newcastle since they were relegated the previous season. Now
Sissoko hasn’t worked out and I am not saying this delay cost Tottenham the
league, but might he not have had more chance had he been settled and working
with Mauricio Pochettino’s squad from the start – rather than being thrown in,
By the time he played a whole 90 minutes, Tottenham were already five games
into their season, had dropped four Premier League points and lost at home to
Monaco in the Champions League. It is not as if the numbers are showing
Tottenham’s slow starts as inconsequential. For the last two seasons they have
as good as lost the league in that opening spell. 
And while I would never presume to send my commentary to Daniel Levy, I have
requested to interview him on numerous conditions and been knocked back every
time. So, instead, Zig, what say we close on another bit of Zigginess? I’m told
this is almost impossible to find these days. Not round my house it isn’t.
    sports stars have to stand up for their country as the...
  • 'Gibraltar is ours': Leicester fans chant on streets of Madrid
  • Shocking moment man gets bashed by riot police in Madrid
  • Dele Alli struggles to blow out birthday candles in hilarious video
  • Arsenal players jeered after crushing Crystal Palace defeat
  • Atletico Madrid fans display support outside players' hotel
  • Borussia Dortmund player injured after explosion near team bus
  • Emergency services on the scene of Dortmund team bus explosion
  • Atletico Madrid v Leicester: Press conference with Craig Shakespeare
  • Bayern boss Carlo Ancelotti says all to play for in second leg
  • Fans chant from inside the Signal Iduna Park stadium
  • Terry Venables' Spanish hotel La Escondida (The Hideaway)
  • Three explosions hit a bus carrying Borussia Dortmund football team
  • Cristiano Ronaldo celebrates after scoring the equaliser just minutes after
    the restart at the Allianz Arena Bayern Munich 1-2 Real Madrid: Cristiano
  • Goalkeeper David de Gea has been told to forget about Real Madrid's
    interest until the summer David de Gea should forget about Real Madrid
  • It may have been Paulo Dybala's night but Lionel Messi was not going to let
    his Argentine apprentice have it entirely his own way Juventus may have
  • Tom Joel (left) was sent to the stands after handing Marc Albrighton some
    water  Leicester sports scientist Tom Joel sent to stands for...
  • Rio Ferdinand has praised Leicester City's 'unbelievable' display against
    Atletico Madrid Leicester's display against Atletico Madrid was...
  • Premier League target Kylian Mbappe celebrates after restoring his side's
    two-goal advantage with 11 minutes to go Borussia Dortmund 2-3 Monaco:
  • Antoine Griezmann sends goalkeeper Kasper Schmeichel the wrong way as he
    opens the scoring for Atletico Madrid Atletico Madrid 1-0 Leicester City:
  • Paul Pogba was pictured giving Timothy Fosu-Mensah a piggy back as they
    boarded the plane Paul Pogba gives Timothy Fosu-Mensah piggyback as...
  • Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger has dropped a hint that he is on the verge of
    signing a new deal Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger hints at signing new deal
  • SPORT's headline on Thursday morning reads 'The start of a new era' after
    Barcelona's defeat Barcelona heading for a 'new era' after Juventus
  • United boss Jose Mourinho is adamant his side can live without the
    Champions League football Manchester United could remain out of Champions
  • UFC superstar Conor McGregor poses on top of a rentred £240,000 Rolls-Royce
    Wraith Conor McGregor could face legal action from luxury car...
  • The potential deal would see the purchase of both the club and the New
    Eltham training facility Charlton owner Roland Duchatelet ready to sell
  • Dortmund midfielder Nuri Sahin admitted his team-mates had been badly
    affected by the blast 'I will never forget the faces in my life', says...
The comments below have been moderated in advance.
The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not
By posting your comment you agree to our house rules.
Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook
Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual.
Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook
Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual
We will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your
Facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on MailOnline. To do this we
will link your MailOnline account with your Facebook account. We’ll ask you to
The post will be credited to your MailOnline username. You can choose on each
post whether you would like it to be posted to Facebook. Your details from
Facebook will be used to provide you with tailored content, marketing and ads
    extension until 2022 in big blow to Barcelona Spanish giants had hoped to
    stars Spieth, Fowler and Co make a splash in the Bahamas as they party
    after the Masters Foursome jumped off a huge yacht and partied
    Carlos as Leicester have warm-down session at Real Madrid training ground 
    Leicester lost across the city against Atletico
    The F-Pace claimed the World Car of the Year award and the Tottenham star
    takes break as he is given week off following gruelling rehab regime The
    Chelsea? Is Mbappe really as good as Henry?- TACKLE KEOWN 
    Ibrahimovic among nominations for the PFA Player of the Year Chelsea pair
    with Juventus until 2022 in big blow to Barcelona Dybala joined in 2015 and
    after Juventus defeat as Spanish media report Coutinho is top of summer
    bags will be allowed in stadium for Europa League clash against Anderlecht 
    'very sore loser', claims Harrington Old rival reveals anger at spitting on
    'full facts' of fan disturbances in Madrid after Champions League clash  
    as Argentina attempt to overturn his four-match ban for abusing linesman 
    Argentina are in trouble in World Cup qualifying
    on shortlist for PFA Young Player of the Year Dele Alli missed out on a
    costing Tottenham in the title race, so wouldn't it help to get their
    Neymar, claims Bolasie Everton winger claims his old Palace team-mate
    rest of season with injury Michail Antonio suffered a hamstring injury
    during his club's crucial victory over Swansea
    Eriksson for penalty blunder against Atletico Madrid as he says he guessed
    splash in the Bahamas during wild 'Spring Break' The four Americans enjoyed
    Mbappe brace and Bender own goal gives visitors the advantage The
    Madrid transfer until after the end of the season, warns Mourinho He
    Torres falls over as he squanders chance Torres isn't used to having too
    Ibrahimovic praised by club legends as he prepares for Anderlecht 
    Ibrahimovic teams up with Valencia and Cole for new advert 
    Kompany train ahead of Southampton match City ramped up their preparations
    with their championship rings to mark historic World Series triumph Team
    stars mix with academy stars as they look to inspire the next generation  
    sports scientist sent off for handing out water in front of Atletico bench 
    as Manchester United board flight to Anderlecht while Mourinho takes call 
    with bandaged arm after undergoing surgery following Dortmund bus blast 
    birthday gaffe: 'Officially an adult, still haven't learned to blow out
    'ready' for crunch Champions League clash as they pose in Bayern's tunnel 
    training as Everton midfielder is seen for first time since 'unprovoked
    attack' Punched in Liverpool bar by fellow reveller
    Mount Everest as he prepares to take on Joshua 'A lot die there... some
    on overcoming mental health problems and trying to find a county Bowler is
    Wijnaldum chance their arm at American football as Cousins pays visit NFL
    League quarter-final against Bayern Munich Ronaldo and Bale both raring to
    -L-52m former Chelsea star fails to rescue Shanghai SIPG from defeat 
    Brazilian had one effort saved and blazed over 
    set off for Champions League clash with Atletico as Shakespeare looks to
    Champions League glory as he inspires new airline seat Real superstar
    Real Madrid fly to Germany to face Bayern Munich in Champions League
    top of his -L-240,000 Rolls-Royce Wraith But how does Floyd Mayweather's
    'inspirational' fiancee take New York trip after his epic win Exstatic pair
    Coleman in Ireland with staff and club captain Jagielka Seamus Coleman on
    walk with crutches after undergoing surgery on season-ending knee injury 
    incognito wearing mask in bid to become street nutmeg king Old man schools
    girls: Video from inside Clyne's birthday bash reveals what it's like to
    party Premier League style  Brilliant 24 hours 
    England seek Champions Trophy glory and admits the squad are not the
    comes through competitive return with 'no issues' Shot-stopper was in nets
    reveals he has fulfilled one of his childhood dream Young star also shared
    mesmerised Teesside... the iconic player on Boro's plight, and Coutinho's
    close friend Beckham Jnr from the spot as he drops by Spurs' training
    becomes boss of La Liga side Granada Struggling side are seven points from
    young Real Madrid mascot as he leaps in the air during walk onto Bernabeu
    eBay! Boxing superstar's Bugatti Veyron advertised online... but it'll cost
    you a whopping -L-3.2m Not an impulse purchase 
    pictures of him getting Chinese tattoo on same day he won Grand Prix  Not
    nightlife at Empire club as UFC star continues to enjoy city after cutting
    loose at Grand National Time off from training 
    day off with his brother in Hungary Day after scoring in Premier League win
    giving his ball to a delighted young fan at Augusta  There are few sweeter
    day out in Manchester The Brazilian could make a comeback from injury for
    and Tinie Tempah Sturridge enjoys time with music stars after making first
    Forlan chants during Sunderland victory United fans sang 'Diego, Diego' -
    of Chinese symbols on the same day he won the Grand Prix in Shanghai 
    who turned up to see him at a wild Grand National after party in Liverpool 
    grills as he joins Liverpool team-mates for Clyne's birthday bash  It was
    man' Wilshere  Wilshere has shared a signed shirt enscribed with a touching
    message he received from his former England team-mate 
    light-hearted podium joke after Brit seals fifth Chinese Grand Prix win 
    Hamilton referred Dutch star as a 'young dude' 
    Chinese GP weekend as Sauber driver crashes in both qualifying and the race
    It was a weekend to forget for the 23-year-old 
    for tying laces... and then gets sent off as Barcelona suffer shock defeat 
    eternal youth and the reason why Rory McIlroy can be golf's new leader  
    OLIVER HOLT: Don't make the mistake of thinking that he's retired
    Champions League games after breaking ribs  He broke two ribs in an
    against Carcamo  JEFF POWELL AT THE MANCHESTER ARENA: The Olympic golden
    Liverpool for Grand National before UFC star makes nightclub appearance  He
    shares naked photoshoot with fans  He's always in the spotlight and now
    Ronaldo has revealed all to the camera... literally! 
    enjoys day out at the races on Aintree's Ladies Day  Jones is out of action
    shows incredible power as UFC star beats record on punchbag arcade game  
    from the University of Turin with a Masters degree  Juventus defender
    triathlon... after former F1 world champion went too fast!  Button, who is
    currently McLaren's reserve driver, is a keen triathlete 
    Chalobah mimics pal Willian's trick... while wearing his Brazil shirt 
    Midfielder paid his team-mate a fine compliment 
    crystal rooster by Torino in honour of his form up front for the Italian
    club Striker hasn't chickened out of a challenge 
    Luiz takes playful aim at Chelsea captain  The skipper took one from the
    team in training at Cobham but his pal had no sympathy
    picture of him with newborn son Leonardo  Wrote heartfelt message in loving
    Rap superstar hits golf course and parties in Augusta  The Doggfather
    manager Conte found out Tottenham had fought back to beat Swansea?  Took a
    Alps: Veteran vows to upset Joshua as he reveals he's in prime physique at
    Austrian training camp  Aiming for stunning bout 
    forward Mertens scores with first touch just eight seconds after coming on
    off the bling as a potential showdown with McGregor edges ever closer Will
    bemused after match referee Stroud rules out Ritchie's penalty and awards
    after Arter followed Kane in fluffing his lines at St Mary's They both
    missed at the same end after the turf gave way
    left in a heap after getting hit between the legs Pogba's eased return back
    Ex-British Olympian Samantha Clayton is the personal trainer keeping the
    Real superstar in shape Clayton is Liverpool born
    and just 10,000 miles on the clock... Kyrgios tries to sell his BMW The
    including ex-Chelsea star Ivanovic pay tribute to victims of metro
    explosion 14 people lost their lives in a terrorist attack
    as he shows the strain of growing pressure after yet another failure with
    sparring partner Wach as he fine-tunes preparations to fight Klitschko 
    an open goal from inches out in victory over Inverness... but is his howler
    from Tintin!': Manchester United fans blame De Gea's hair for failure to
    beat Everton  'Weirdo' cut draws some interesting theories
    hits the gym on road to recovery... before eating Big Macs in McDonald's 
    tricked into donating to 'Mesut Ozil missing persons fund' Latest in a
    series of 'hilarious' filmed pranks played on stars
    doesn't look good': Keown, Rio and Wright slam Lukaku for shushing Williams
    as pair are involved in row Everton drew with United 
    Adam penalised for handball after falling over as he attempts to take
    set-piece during Stoke's Burnley loss Adam was left red-faced 
    Dowd on his bag after caddie gets held up by a storm  Webb Simpson's
    in the Arsenal squad after all... Rob Holding took spoils when he, Bellerin
    and Danny Welbeck took part in 31-second challenge
    aimed at tackling racism and promoting inclusion Ex-Man United star shared
    Real Madrid star shares glimpse of nude photoshoot on Instagram Confident
    from pregnant girlfriend Marta Dominguez The Chelsea No 1 confirmed the
    of prank TV interview only to turn the tables on the presenter Quizzed on
    his time at Manchester United as he reminisces over No 7 shirt 'It was the
    crash: I lost six pints of blood, I'm lucky to be alive MARTHA KELNER: His
    right leg bares a jagged scar five inches long
    offence as he admits: 'I don't like fish and chips'  He loves going to
    country pubs for a Sunday roast and is big fan of pies 
    fashion show in Manchester with Playboy model  A big fan of sporting stars
    after being linked with string of footballers 
    Padraig Harrington as old rival reveals his...
    among nominations for the PFA Player of the...
    adamant Juventus will not collapse like PSG in...
  • Bayern Munich 1-2 Real Madrid: Cristiano Ronaldo scores 100th goal in
    Europe as Arturo Vidal misses glorious chance from the penalty spot before
    Javi Martinez is sent off in the quarter-final first leg
  • Rangers star Barrie McKay turns down offer to extend deal by two years 
  • Charlton owner Roland Duchatelet ready to sell with Australian consortium
    in talks over potential takeover of League One club
  • David de Gea should forget about Real Madrid transfer until after the end
    of the season, says Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho
  • Atletico Madrid 1-0 Leicester City, UEFA Champions League RESULT: Antoine
    Griezmann nets controversial penalty to seal first leg victory
  • Leicester's display against Atletico Madrid was 'unbelievable', says Rio
    Ferdinand as Martin O'Neill adds second-leg will be 'tricky' for visitors
  • Leicester sports scientist Tom Joel sent to stands for handing out water in
  • Leicester fans chant 'Gibraltar is ours' during violent clashes with police
  • Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger hints at signing new deal by planning contract
  • Zlatan Ibrahimovic's Manchester United deal the exception in the precarious
  • Bayern Munich 1-2 Real Madrid, UEFA Champions League RESULT: Relive all the
  • Eden Hazard, N'Golo Kante, Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Alexis Sanchez among
    nominations for the PFA Player of the Year award
  • Atletico Madrid 1-0 Leicester City: Antoine Griezmann penalty gives
    dominant hosts victory in Champions League quarter-final first leg
  • Borussia Dortmund 2-3 Monaco, UEFA Champions League LIVE: Follow all the
    action as it happens after bus bomb explosion in Germany
  • Barcelona heading for a 'new era' after Juventus defeat as Spanish media
    report Liverpool forward Philippe Coutinho is top of summer wishlist
  • Manchester United could remain out of Champions League for another four
    years and still compete with big clubs, insists Jose Mourinho
  • Tottenham star Harry Kane flaunts his -L-40,000 Jaguar World Car of the
  • He made his fortune from waste disposal... now Francesco Becchetti is
  • Borussia Dortmund 2-3 Monaco: Kylian Mbappe brace and Sven Bender own goal
    gives visitors the advantage after a thrilling quarter-final first leg
  • Cristiano Ronaldo's century of European goals: Sportsmail breaks down the
    Real Madrid star's stunning hundred after brace against Bayern Munich 
Sitemap Archive Video Archive Topics Index Mobile Apps Screensaver RSS
Text-based site Reader Prints Our Papers Top of page
Daily Mail Mail on Sunday This is Network This is Money
Metro Jobsite Mail Travel Zoopla.co.uk Prime Location
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
(C) Associated Newspapers Ltd Contact us How to complain Advertise with us
Contributors Terms Discount Codes Privacy policy & cookies Cookie regulation
