    just 18... but what were Messi, Henry and the Ronaldos doing at his age?
    departs after agreeing deal to sell to Chinese investors for £628m
    the title race, so wouldn't it help to get their transfer business done
    attack... and questions the decision to play match so soon
    And is Mbappe really as good as Arsenal legend Henry?
    old rival reveals anger at spitting on course and throwing shoes
    so, how many more games will he play in under Mourinho?
    to Munich (No 100), where the star struck on way to his century
    Carlos as Leicester have warm-down session at Madrid rivals' training
    defeat with Liverpool forward Coutinho top of summer wishlist
    defeat against Atletico to reach Champions League semi-finals
    loss to Real Madrid... but they are a formidable hurricane of arrogance and
    Player of the Year shortlist for (but there's no place for Spurs star Alli)
    football in this world... I will never forget the faces': Sahin's emotional
    explain his continued exile from international football
    ignored': Tuchel not happy with decision to make Dortmund play
    make a splash in the during holiday on 'Spring Break'
    academy transfer ban forces them to look abroad
    stop the goals going in to see results improve
How can Manchester United beat Chelsea? Is Kylian Mbappe really as good as
  • Martin Keown returned to answer YOUR questions after a busy week of action
  • Former Arsenal defender spoke about the Player of the Year shortlist
  • Scroll down to read all of Martin's answers from this week's Tackle Keown
Published: 12:07, 13 April 2017 | Updated: 13:46, 13 April 2017
Sportsmail columnist Martin Keown returned to answer more of your questions in
The former Arsenal defender had his say on the Player of the Year shortlist,
Leicester's chance in the Champions League and Chelsea's game at Manchester
Monaco striker Kylian Mbappe's performance against Borussia Dortmund is also up
for discussion as well as Martin's former club Arsenal following their defeat
Scroll down to read Martin's answers to your questions.
Thank you for all of your questions this week, I enjoyed answering them. 
I hope you all have an egg-cellent Easter weekend and enjoy all the football
I'll be back at the same time next week to answer more of your questions. 
What did you make of Marouane Fellaini being made Manchester United captain
Jose Mourinho is a flag bearer for players who get their head down and work
hard. Making him captain is another example of Mourinho wanting to reward that
He is also making a statement to the fans who have not supported Fellaini that
he is prepared to stick with the players who have worked hard for him.
Can Manchester United upset Chelsea on Sunday? - Luke from Rochester
I doubt it. If you are a Chelsea player, the message is, ‘If we get something
Manchester United are capable of doing something special against Chelsea but
the fact they will have played 51 games already his season will catch up with
While United have travelled to face Anderlecht this week, Chelsea will have had
Tottenham will be desperate for Chelsea to slip up but I think the best they
Was Arsenal's defeat by Palace the straw that broke the camel’s back? - David
For all Arsenal fans it was a sickening blow. Sam Allardyce identified a
Christian Benteke is so difficult to contain and everything Crystal Palace did
was through the Belgian. Arsenal were being bullied and they did not have the
It feels as if Arsenal are sleepwalking out of the Champions League positions.
The players do not want to be booed as they step onto the team bus, or be told
There will have been a moment on that bus after the game when it will have
I feel Arsene Wenger has underestimated his greatest value as a manager.
No manager I played for had more belief in me than Wenger. When a manager has
that much trust in you it generates an extra 10 or 20 per cent in your
If there had been such uncertainty about his future while I was playing, that X
One of Wenger’s greatest strengths is the warmth he creates. With Wenger not
confirming whether he will stay or go, the players face all of that being
It is why the players have not been performing. Their self esteem has fallen
and their confidence has been sapped. It is affecting the environment at the
Wenger has to make a decision and quickly to help the group.
Is Cristiano Ronaldo the world’s greatest player after scoring 100 European
It is too early to declare who is the greatest in this epic battle between
I am a Messi fan but longevity will be key to whoever wins this race. This
competition between the two will keep their careers burning brightly for many
Ronaldo wants to be the top dog. He is motivated by being the best player in
his era – and it will feel like a significant achievement for him that he has
But Messi is sure to come roaring back - we are witnessing two of the greatest
players ever to kick a football and there is nothing between them.
What did you make of Jose Mourinho’s comments about Luke Shaw? - Anthony form
Mourinho has hindered the development of young players by saying that he was
‘making every decision’ for Luke Shaw against Everton.
At grassroots level there are so many parents who are trying to control their
Young players need to be free in their minds to enjoy their football. If you
are going to shout anything, just say ‘well done’.
Under George Graham at Arsenal, Stewart Houston would keep whistling at me from
I felt like a sheepdog on the pitch! In one game I went over to the referee in
the first five minutes and asked if he could find out who was whistling. He
At 1-0, are Leicester still in this tie? - Graham from Leicester
They are – although the situation may play into Atletico’s hands. Leicester
will be desperate for a goal but Atletico are the masters of hurting teams on
It will be interesting, though, to see how Atletico deal with the atmosphere of
Last season Leicester made you feel that anything was possible if you had
enough self-belief. That light had gone out this season but was rekindled with
With Leicester the underdogs facing an impossible ask, the second leg will be
Do you agree with the comparisons between Kylian Mbappe and Thierry Henry? -
Watching Mbappe for Monaco and Ousmane Dembele for Dortmund last night reminded
Mbappe is ruthless. His finish last night was emphatic. Henry liked that
textbook finish into the corner but I feel Mbappe may have an even greater
Henry was used sparingly in his early days at Monaco but they have kept Mbappe
out there. It tells me that they are probably preparing to sell him.
There must be an avalanche of clubs trying to buy him. He has a similar
movement to Marcus Rashford but Mbappe is more dynamic and powerful.
We had Anelka at Arsenal when he was 17 and it is truly amazing when you see
someone so talented that young. I get the same feeling watching Mbappe.
Who is your young player of the year? - Ben from Surrey
Dele Alli wins hands down – he is a matchwinner. For a player who has just
turned 21 he is so balanced and seems to be enjoying everything.
He is at the perfect club in terms of his education with a core group of
like-minded English players. From an Arsenal point of view I look upon them
I do not understand why a player who is 24 is on the shortlist. I am not taking
anything away from Michael Keane – he has performed well for Burnley this
season and is now firmly on the England conveyor belt after his displays last
But if a 24-year-old can be shortlisted for Young Player of the Year then
surely Alli could win it for the next three years!
If Keane can make the shortlist then I would argue that Harry Maguire at Hull –
who is two months younger than the Burnley defender – should have been in with
a shout. On recent performances Maguire is definitely ahead of Keane.
It would feel strange if Romelu Lukaku, who is an established Premier League
The cut-off point should be 23. I would have thought the winner should be a
Are there any players who can count themselves unlucky not to be on the Player
It is a bit odd that Diego Costa is not there. He is the most difficult centre
Without him it means there is a choice between the flamboyant Eden Hazard or
Kante is now the benchmark for central midfielders. He is like an extra player
in the way he makes sure his team are not outnumbered in every area of the
Just look at the ground he covers. Chelsea versus Tottenham is a mouthwatering
FA Cup semi-final but Kante means that Spurs will effectively have to face 12
Kante is my choice for Player of the Year but Hazard can count himself unlucky
He is getting close to Ronaldo, Messi, Bale and Neymar’s level. He is the
I love his change of pace. Hazard moves so quickly that his opponents do not
I will be answering your questions in five minutes (12.30), so stand by to see
Good afternoon and welcome to this week’s edition of Tackle Keown.
I will be answering your questions at 12.30 this afternoon and the mail bag
already has plenty of hot topics for me to get stuck into, but there is still
time to get your question in via Twitter using the hashtag #TackleKeown.
{"id":"4408572","channel":"/sport","pageUrl":"http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sport/
How-Manchester-United-beat-Chelsea-TACKLE-KEOWN.html","status":"finished","greenBox":
  • 'Gibraltar is ours': Leicester fans chant on streets of Madrid
  • Shocking moment man gets bashed by riot police in Madrid
  • Dele Alli struggles to blow out birthday candles in hilarious video
  • Arsenal players jeered after crushing Crystal Palace defeat
  • Atletico Madrid fans display support outside players' hotel
  • Borussia Dortmund player injured after explosion near team bus
  • Emergency services on the scene of Dortmund team bus explosion
  • Atletico Madrid v Leicester: Press conference with Craig Shakespeare
  • Bayern boss Carlo Ancelotti says all to play for in second leg
  • Fans chant from inside the Signal Iduna Park stadium
  • Terry Venables' Spanish hotel La Escondida (The Hideaway)
  • Three explosions hit a bus carrying Borussia Dortmund football team
  • Cristiano Ronaldo celebrates after scoring the equaliser just minutes after
    the restart at the Allianz Arena Bayern Munich 1-2 Real Madrid: Cristiano
  • Goalkeeper David de Gea has been told to forget about Real Madrid's
    interest until the summer David de Gea should forget about Real Madrid
  • It may have been Paulo Dybala's night but Lionel Messi was not going to let
    his Argentine apprentice have it entirely his own way Juventus may have
  • Tom Joel (left) was sent to the stands after handing Marc Albrighton some
    water  Leicester sports scientist Tom Joel sent to stands for...
  • Rio Ferdinand has praised Leicester City's 'unbelievable' display against
    Atletico Madrid Leicester's display against Atletico Madrid was...
  • Premier League target Kylian Mbappe celebrates after restoring his side's
    two-goal advantage with 11 minutes to go Borussia Dortmund 2-3 Monaco:
  • Antoine Griezmann sends goalkeeper Kasper Schmeichel the wrong way as he
    opens the scoring for Atletico Madrid Atletico Madrid 1-0 Leicester City:
  • Paul Pogba was pictured giving Timothy Fosu-Mensah a piggy back as they
    boarded the plane Paul Pogba gives Timothy Fosu-Mensah piggyback as...
  • Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger has dropped a hint that he is on the verge of
    signing a new deal Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger hints at signing new deal
  • SPORT's headline on Thursday morning reads 'The start of a new era' after
    Barcelona's defeat Barcelona heading for a 'new era' after Juventus
  • United boss Jose Mourinho is adamant his side can live without the
    Champions League football Manchester United could remain out of Champions
  • UFC superstar Conor McGregor poses on top of a rentred £240,000 Rolls-Royce
    Wraith Conor McGregor could face legal action from luxury car...
  • The potential deal would see the purchase of both the club and the New
    Eltham training facility Charlton owner Roland Duchatelet ready to sell
  • Dortmund midfielder Nuri Sahin admitted his team-mates had been badly
    affected by the blast 'I will never forget the faces in my life', says...
The views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not
By posting your comment you agree to our house rules.
Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook
Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual.
Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook
Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual
We will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your
Facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on MailOnline. To do this we
will link your MailOnline account with your Facebook account. We’ll ask you to
The post will be credited to your MailOnline username. You can choose on each
post whether you would like it to be posted to Facebook. Your details from
Facebook will be used to provide you with tailored content, marketing and ads
    extension until 2022 in big blow to Barcelona Spanish giants had hoped to
    stars Spieth, Fowler and Co make a splash in the Bahamas as they party
    after the Masters Foursome jumped off a huge yacht and partied
    Carlos as Leicester have warm-down session at Real Madrid training ground 
    Leicester lost across the city against Atletico
    The F-Pace claimed the World Car of the Year award and the Tottenham star
    takes break as he is given week off following gruelling rehab regime The
    Chelsea? Is Mbappe really as good as Henry?- TACKLE KEOWN 
    Ibrahimovic among nominations for the PFA Player of the Year Chelsea pair
    with Juventus until 2022 in big blow to Barcelona Dybala joined in 2015 and
    after Juventus defeat as Spanish media report Coutinho is top of summer
    bags will be allowed in stadium for Europa League clash against Anderlecht 
    'very sore loser', claims Harrington Old rival reveals anger at spitting on
    'full facts' of fan disturbances in Madrid after Champions League clash  
    as Argentina attempt to overturn his four-match ban for abusing linesman 
    Argentina are in trouble in World Cup qualifying
    on shortlist for PFA Young Player of the Year Dele Alli missed out on a
    costing Tottenham in the title race, so wouldn't it help to get their
    Neymar, claims Bolasie Everton winger claims his old Palace team-mate
    rest of season with injury Michail Antonio suffered a hamstring injury
    during his club's crucial victory over Swansea
    Eriksson for penalty blunder against Atletico Madrid as he says he guessed
    splash in the Bahamas during wild 'Spring Break' The four Americans enjoyed
    Mbappe brace and Bender own goal gives visitors the advantage The
    Madrid transfer until after the end of the season, warns Mourinho He
    Torres falls over as he squanders chance Torres isn't used to having too
    Ibrahimovic praised by club legends as he prepares for Anderlecht 
    Ibrahimovic teams up with Valencia and Cole for new advert 
    Kompany train ahead of Southampton match City ramped up their preparations
    with their championship rings to mark historic World Series triumph Team
    stars mix with academy stars as they look to inspire the next generation  
    sports scientist sent off for handing out water in front of Atletico bench 
    as Manchester United board flight to Anderlecht while Mourinho takes call 
    with bandaged arm after undergoing surgery following Dortmund bus blast 
    birthday gaffe: 'Officially an adult, still haven't learned to blow out
    'ready' for crunch Champions League clash as they pose in Bayern's tunnel 
    training as Everton midfielder is seen for first time since 'unprovoked
    attack' Punched in Liverpool bar by fellow reveller
    Mount Everest as he prepares to take on Joshua 'A lot die there... some
    on overcoming mental health problems and trying to find a county Bowler is
    Wijnaldum chance their arm at American football as Cousins pays visit NFL
    League quarter-final against Bayern Munich Ronaldo and Bale both raring to
    -L-52m former Chelsea star fails to rescue Shanghai SIPG from defeat 
    Brazilian had one effort saved and blazed over 
    set off for Champions League clash with Atletico as Shakespeare looks to
    Champions League glory as he inspires new airline seat Real superstar
    Real Madrid fly to Germany to face Bayern Munich in Champions League
    top of his -L-240,000 Rolls-Royce Wraith But how does Floyd Mayweather's
    'inspirational' fiancee take New York trip after his epic win Exstatic pair
    Coleman in Ireland with staff and club captain Jagielka Seamus Coleman on
    walk with crutches after undergoing surgery on season-ending knee injury 
    incognito wearing mask in bid to become street nutmeg king Old man schools
    girls: Video from inside Clyne's birthday bash reveals what it's like to
    party Premier League style  Brilliant 24 hours 
    England seek Champions Trophy glory and admits the squad are not the
    comes through competitive return with 'no issues' Shot-stopper was in nets
    reveals he has fulfilled one of his childhood dream Young star also shared
    mesmerised Teesside... the iconic player on Boro's plight, and Coutinho's
    close friend Beckham Jnr from the spot as he drops by Spurs' training
    becomes boss of La Liga side Granada Struggling side are seven points from
    young Real Madrid mascot as he leaps in the air during walk onto Bernabeu
    eBay! Boxing superstar's Bugatti Veyron advertised online... but it'll cost
    you a whopping -L-3.2m Not an impulse purchase 
    pictures of him getting Chinese tattoo on same day he won Grand Prix  Not
    nightlife at Empire club as UFC star continues to enjoy city after cutting
    loose at Grand National Time off from training 
    day off with his brother in Hungary Day after scoring in Premier League win
    giving his ball to a delighted young fan at Augusta  There are few sweeter
    day out in Manchester The Brazilian could make a comeback from injury for
    and Tinie Tempah Sturridge enjoys time with music stars after making first
    Forlan chants during Sunderland victory United fans sang 'Diego, Diego' -
    of Chinese symbols on the same day he won the Grand Prix in Shanghai 
    who turned up to see him at a wild Grand National after party in Liverpool 
    grills as he joins Liverpool team-mates for Clyne's birthday bash  It was
    man' Wilshere  Wilshere has shared a signed shirt enscribed with a touching
    message he received from his former England team-mate 
    light-hearted podium joke after Brit seals fifth Chinese Grand Prix win 
    Hamilton referred Dutch star as a 'young dude' 
    Chinese GP weekend as Sauber driver crashes in both qualifying and the race
    It was a weekend to forget for the 23-year-old 
    for tying laces... and then gets sent off as Barcelona suffer shock defeat 
    eternal youth and the reason why Rory McIlroy can be golf's new leader  
    OLIVER HOLT: Don't make the mistake of thinking that he's retired
    Champions League games after breaking ribs  He broke two ribs in an
    against Carcamo  JEFF POWELL AT THE MANCHESTER ARENA: The Olympic golden
    Liverpool for Grand National before UFC star makes nightclub appearance  He
    shares naked photoshoot with fans  He's always in the spotlight and now
    Ronaldo has revealed all to the camera... literally! 
    enjoys day out at the races on Aintree's Ladies Day  Jones is out of action
    shows incredible power as UFC star beats record on punchbag arcade game  
    from the University of Turin with a Masters degree  Juventus defender
    triathlon... after former F1 world champion went too fast!  Button, who is
    currently McLaren's reserve driver, is a keen triathlete 
    Chalobah mimics pal Willian's trick... while wearing his Brazil shirt 
    Midfielder paid his team-mate a fine compliment 
    crystal rooster by Torino in honour of his form up front for the Italian
    club Striker hasn't chickened out of a challenge 
    Luiz takes playful aim at Chelsea captain  The skipper took one from the
    team in training at Cobham but his pal had no sympathy
    picture of him with newborn son Leonardo  Wrote heartfelt message in loving
    Rap superstar hits golf course and parties in Augusta  The Doggfather
    manager Conte found out Tottenham had fought back to beat Swansea?  Took a
    Alps: Veteran vows to upset Joshua as he reveals he's in prime physique at
    Austrian training camp  Aiming for stunning bout 
    forward Mertens scores with first touch just eight seconds after coming on
    off the bling as a potential showdown with McGregor edges ever closer Will
    bemused after match referee Stroud rules out Ritchie's penalty and awards
    after Arter followed Kane in fluffing his lines at St Mary's They both
    missed at the same end after the turf gave way
    left in a heap after getting hit between the legs Pogba's eased return back
    Ex-British Olympian Samantha Clayton is the personal trainer keeping the
    Real superstar in shape Clayton is Liverpool born
    and just 10,000 miles on the clock... Kyrgios tries to sell his BMW The
    including ex-Chelsea star Ivanovic pay tribute to victims of metro
    explosion 14 people lost their lives in a terrorist attack
    as he shows the strain of growing pressure after yet another failure with
    sparring partner Wach as he fine-tunes preparations to fight Klitschko 
    an open goal from inches out in victory over Inverness... but is his howler
    from Tintin!': Manchester United fans blame De Gea's hair for failure to
    beat Everton  'Weirdo' cut draws some interesting theories
    hits the gym on road to recovery... before eating Big Macs in McDonald's 
    tricked into donating to 'Mesut Ozil missing persons fund' Latest in a
    series of 'hilarious' filmed pranks played on stars
    doesn't look good': Keown, Rio and Wright slam Lukaku for shushing Williams
    as pair are involved in row Everton drew with United 
    Adam penalised for handball after falling over as he attempts to take
    set-piece during Stoke's Burnley loss Adam was left red-faced 
    Dowd on his bag after caddie gets held up by a storm  Webb Simpson's
    in the Arsenal squad after all... Rob Holding took spoils when he, Bellerin
    and Danny Welbeck took part in 31-second challenge
    aimed at tackling racism and promoting inclusion Ex-Man United star shared
    Real Madrid star shares glimpse of nude photoshoot on Instagram Confident
    from pregnant girlfriend Marta Dominguez The Chelsea No 1 confirmed the
    of prank TV interview only to turn the tables on the presenter Quizzed on
    his time at Manchester United as he reminisces over No 7 shirt 'It was the
    crash: I lost six pints of blood, I'm lucky to be alive MARTHA KELNER: His
    right leg bares a jagged scar five inches long
    offence as he admits: 'I don't like fish and chips'  He loves going to
    country pubs for a Sunday roast and is big fan of pies 
    fashion show in Manchester with Playboy model  A big fan of sporting stars
    after being linked with string of footballers 
    Padraig Harrington as old rival reveals his...
    among nominations for the PFA Player of the...
    adamant Juventus will not collapse like PSG in...
  • Bayern Munich 1-2 Real Madrid: Cristiano Ronaldo scores 100th goal in
    Europe as Arturo Vidal misses glorious chance from the penalty spot before
    Javi Martinez is sent off in the quarter-final first leg
  • Charlton owner Roland Duchatelet ready to sell with Australian consortium
    in talks over potential takeover of League One club
  • Rangers star Barrie McKay turns down offer to extend deal by two years 
  • David de Gea should forget about Real Madrid transfer until after the end
    of the season, says Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho
  • Atletico Madrid 1-0 Leicester City, UEFA Champions League RESULT: Antoine
    Griezmann nets controversial penalty to seal first leg victory
  • Leicester's display against Atletico Madrid was 'unbelievable', says Rio
    Ferdinand as Martin O'Neill adds second-leg will be 'tricky' for visitors
  • Leicester sports scientist Tom Joel sent to stands for handing out water in
  • Leicester fans chant 'Gibraltar is ours' during violent clashes with police
  • Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger hints at signing new deal by planning contract
  • Zlatan Ibrahimovic's Manchester United deal the exception in the precarious
  • Conor McGregor could face legal action from luxury car hire firm after UFC
  • Bayern Munich 1-2 Real Madrid, UEFA Champions League RESULT: Relive all the
  • Eden Hazard, N'Golo Kante, Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Alexis Sanchez among
    nominations for the PFA Player of the Year award
  • Atletico Madrid 1-0 Leicester City: Antoine Griezmann penalty gives
    dominant hosts victory in Champions League quarter-final first leg
  • Borussia Dortmund 2-3 Monaco, UEFA Champions League LIVE: Follow all the
    action as it happens after bus bomb explosion in Germany
  • Barcelona heading for a 'new era' after Juventus defeat as Spanish media
    report Liverpool forward Philippe Coutinho is top of summer wishlist
  • Manchester United could remain out of Champions League for another four
    years and still compete with big clubs, insists Jose Mourinho
  • He made his fortune from waste disposal... now Francesco Becchetti is
  • Tottenham star Harry Kane flaunts his -L-40,000 Jaguar World Car of the
  • Borussia Dortmund 2-3 Monaco: Kylian Mbappe brace and Sven Bender own goal
    gives visitors the advantage after a thrilling quarter-final first leg
Sitemap Archive Video Archive Topics Index Mobile Apps Screensaver RSS
Text-based site Reader Prints Our Papers Top of page
Daily Mail Mail on Sunday This is Network This is Money
Metro Jobsite Mail Travel Zoopla.co.uk Prime Location
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
(C) Associated Newspapers Ltd Contact us How to complain Advertise with us
Contributors Terms Discount Codes Privacy policy & cookies Cookie regulation
