    just 18... but what were Messi, Henry and the Ronaldos doing at his age?
    departs after agreeing deal to sell to Chinese investors for £628m
    the title race, so wouldn't it help to get their transfer business done
    attack... and questions the decision to play match so soon
    And is Mbappe really as good as Arsenal legend Henry?
    old rival reveals anger at spitting on course and throwing shoes
    so, how many more games will he play in under Mourinho?
    to Munich (No 100), where the star struck on way to his century
    Carlos as Leicester have warm-down session at Madrid rivals' training
    defeat with Liverpool forward Coutinho top of summer wishlist
    defeat against Atletico to reach Champions League semi-finals
    loss to Real Madrid... but they are a formidable hurricane of arrogance and
    Player of the Year shortlist for (but there's no place for Spurs star Alli)
    football in this world... I will never forget the faces': Sahin's emotional
    explain his continued exile from international football
    ignored': Tuchel not happy with decision to make Dortmund play
    make a splash in the during holiday on 'Spring Break'
    academy transfer ban forces them to look abroad
    stop the goals going in to see results improve
Jurgen Klopp visibly upset as he reveals his fear after Dortmund attack... and
questions the decision to play the Champions League game with Monaco so soon
  • Jurgen Klopp has spoken about the attack on former club Dortmund this week
  • Dortmund's team bus was attacked on their way to face Monaco on Tuesday
  • The game was postponed and replayed on Wednesday, just a day later
  • Klopp has revealed his fear after hearing about the attack on Dortmund
  • He has questioned the decision to replay the contest just a day later 
By Andy Warren For Mailonline and Dominic King for MailOnline
Published: 13:45, 13 April 2017 | Updated: 15:18, 13 April 2017
Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp has spoken of his deep concern for his former
club Dortmund after hearing of the roadside explosion which caused their clash
The German club's scheduled Champions League game was delayed by 24 hours after
three roadside explosives shattered bus windows in a suspected terror attack,
which saw defender Marc Bartra hospitalised with a broken bone in his wrist.
Klopp, who managed Dortmund for seven years until leaving in 2015, has revealed
how he immediately tried to get information on his former team after being
informed of the incident, before speaking of his pride after seeing how the
club responded when the game was replayed on Wednesday evening. 
Jurgen Klopp has spoken of his fear after hearing about the attack on former
The Dortmund team bus was hit by three explosions en route to their clash with
The Dortmund team bus was hit by three explosions en route to their clash with
The Dortmund team bus was hit by three explosions en route to their clash with
Klopp managed Dortmund for six years, from 2009 until his departure in 2015
Klopp managed Dortmund for six years, from 2009 until his departure in 2015
Klopp managed Dortmund for six years, from 2009 until his departure in 2015
He did, however, question the decision to play the game just a day after the
incident, with Dortmund boss Thomas Tuchel insisting he and his players were
not happy with the lack of consultation over the rescheduling.
The Liverpool manager was asked about the incident and, after a long pause and
looking visibly moved, he replied: 'First of all what I say isn’t important….
What can I say? Really, really difficult moment for everyone.
'I don’t know how often I have been in that hotel down the years. I know
exactly where it is on that road. 'I was on way home from Melwood and I was
called to tell me that something happened on the bus and I tried immediately to
get information. I was scared for them (the players), I was scared for
The Liverpool manager looked visibly upset as he discussed what happened to his
The Liverpool manager looked visibly upset as he discussed what happened to his
The Liverpool manager looked visibly upset as he discussed what happened to his
Borussia Dortmund players pictured outside their hotel after getting off their
Borussia Dortmund players pictured outside their hotel after getting off their
Borussia Dortmund players pictured outside their hotel after getting off their
Klopp, pictured in front of Dortmund's Yellow Wall on his return to his old
Klopp, pictured in front of Dortmund's Yellow Wall on his return to his old
Klopp, pictured in front of Dortmund's Yellow Wall on his return to his old
'The first moment it looks not too serious then more information it becomes
more serious. I had contact with a few people but didn’t want to bother them
'The last thing I thought about (after hearing the news) was the game. I can
100 per cent see both sides of the coin (why the game went ahead). It’s really,
really difficult to find a date in this really tight schedule. But I think
everyone would have said, if they were asked, ok we play next week. 
'I saw the game last night. I was really proud of Dortmund and how they created
this atmosphere. They tried to be at their best. But I saw it in the faces of
my former players and I saw the shock in their eyes. I watched the game
Marc Bartra posted a picture to reassure fans that he is okay following the
Marc Bartra posted a picture to reassure fans that he is okay following the
Marc Bartra posted a picture to reassure fans that he is okay following the
An image of Dortmund player Bartra was shown before the game on Wednesday
An image of Dortmund player Bartra was shown before the game on Wednesday
An image of Dortmund player Bartra was shown before the game on Wednesday
'It is a very serious thing. It will take time to deal with it (the situation)
in a proper way. I’m pretty sure if they were on the bus (who made the
decision) they would not have played the game (on Wednesday). But the game is
over. The have a few days…. What can I say? They have a few days to live with
German authorities are treating the incident as a possible terror attack after
letters were found claiming responsibility, but Klopp has insisted such
incidents should not be allowed to affect the way we live our lives.  
'In the world it is really, really difficult to understand things at the
minute. But life goes on. We should not let them affect our life. We can carry
on and we will carry on. We care about them (Dortmund) but we have to carry on.
There is no problem to concentrate on our situations.
Monaco youngster Kylian Mbappe scored twice as the French side secured a 3-2
Monaco youngster Kylian Mbappe scored twice as the French side secured a 3-2
Monaco youngster Kylian Mbappe scored twice as the French side secured a 3-2
'We do everything we can. Am I concerned? No. But in all parts of life we can
only give 100 per cent and I’m sure everyone is doing this to give you the best
Speaking after Dortmund lost the replayed game 3-2 on Wednesday night, German
boss Thomas Tuchel insisted he and his team were unhappy at the lack of
consultation, saying: ‘We were informed by text message that UEFA was making
this decision, a decision made in Switzerland that concerns us directly. We
A few minutes after this attack, the only question asked was, ‘‘Are you ready
to play?’’ — as if we had thrown a beer on our coach.'  
  • 'Gibraltar is ours': Leicester fans chant on streets of Madrid
  • Shocking moment man gets bashed by riot police in Madrid
  • Dele Alli struggles to blow out birthday candles in hilarious video
  • Arsenal players jeered after crushing Crystal Palace defeat
  • Atletico Madrid fans display support outside players' hotel
  • Borussia Dortmund player injured after explosion near team bus
  • Emergency services on the scene of Dortmund team bus explosion
  • Atletico Madrid v Leicester: Press conference with Craig Shakespeare
  • Bayern boss Carlo Ancelotti says all to play for in second leg
  • Fans chant from inside the Signal Iduna Park stadium
  • Terry Venables' Spanish hotel La Escondida (The Hideaway)
  • Three explosions hit a bus carrying Borussia Dortmund football team
  • Cristiano Ronaldo celebrates after scoring the equaliser just minutes after
    the restart at the Allianz Arena Bayern Munich 1-2 Real Madrid: Cristiano
  • Goalkeeper David de Gea has been told to forget about Real Madrid's
    interest until the summer David de Gea should forget about Real Madrid
  • It may have been Paulo Dybala's night but Lionel Messi was not going to let
    his Argentine apprentice have it entirely his own way Juventus may have
  • Tom Joel (left) was sent to the stands after handing Marc Albrighton some
    water  Leicester sports scientist Tom Joel sent to stands for...
  • Rio Ferdinand has praised Leicester City's 'unbelievable' display against
    Atletico Madrid Leicester's display against Atletico Madrid was...
  • Premier League target Kylian Mbappe celebrates after restoring his side's
    two-goal advantage with 11 minutes to go Borussia Dortmund 2-3 Monaco:
  • Antoine Griezmann sends goalkeeper Kasper Schmeichel the wrong way as he
    opens the scoring for Atletico Madrid Atletico Madrid 1-0 Leicester City:
  • Paul Pogba was pictured giving Timothy Fosu-Mensah a piggy back as they
    boarded the plane Paul Pogba gives Timothy Fosu-Mensah piggyback as...
  • Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger has dropped a hint that he is on the verge of
    signing a new deal Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger hints at signing new deal
  • SPORT's headline on Thursday morning reads 'The start of a new era' after
    Barcelona's defeat Barcelona heading for a 'new era' after Juventus
  • United boss Jose Mourinho is adamant his side can live without the
    Champions League football Manchester United could remain out of Champions
  • UFC superstar Conor McGregor poses on top of a rentred £240,000 Rolls-Royce
    Wraith Conor McGregor could face legal action from luxury car...
  • The potential deal would see the purchase of both the club and the New
    Eltham training facility Charlton owner Roland Duchatelet ready to sell
  • Dortmund midfielder Nuri Sahin admitted his team-mates had been badly
    affected by the blast 'I will never forget the faces in my life', says...
No comments have so far been submitted. Why not be the first to send us your
thoughts, or debate this issue live on our message boards.
By posting your comment you agree to our house rules.
Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook
Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual.
Do you want to automatically post your MailOnline comments to your Facebook
Your comment will be posted to MailOnline as usual
We will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your
Facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on MailOnline. To do this we
will link your MailOnline account with your Facebook account. We’ll ask you to
The post will be credited to your MailOnline username. You can choose on each
post whether you would like it to be posted to Facebook. Your details from
Facebook will be used to provide you with tailored content, marketing and ads
    extension until 2022 in big blow to Barcelona Spanish giants had hoped to
    stars Spieth, Fowler and Co make a splash in the Bahamas as they party
    after the Masters Foursome jumped off a huge yacht and partied
    Carlos as Leicester have warm-down session at Real Madrid training ground 
    Leicester lost across the city against Atletico
    The F-Pace claimed the World Car of the Year award and the Tottenham star
    takes break as he is given week off following gruelling rehab regime The
    Chelsea? Is Mbappe really as good as Henry?- TACKLE KEOWN 
    Ibrahimovic among nominations for the PFA Player of the Year Chelsea pair
    with Juventus until 2022 in big blow to Barcelona Dybala joined in 2015 and
    after Juventus defeat as Spanish media report Coutinho is top of summer
    bags will be allowed in stadium for Europa League clash against Anderlecht 
    'very sore loser', claims Harrington Old rival reveals anger at spitting on
    'full facts' of fan disturbances in Madrid after Champions League clash  
    as Argentina attempt to overturn his four-match ban for abusing linesman 
    Argentina are in trouble in World Cup qualifying
    on shortlist for PFA Young Player of the Year Dele Alli missed out on a
    costing Tottenham in the title race, so wouldn't it help to get their
    Neymar, claims Bolasie Everton winger claims his old Palace team-mate
    rest of season with injury Michail Antonio suffered a hamstring injury
    during his club's crucial victory over Swansea
    Eriksson for penalty blunder against Atletico Madrid as he says he guessed
    splash in the Bahamas during wild 'Spring Break' The four Americans enjoyed
    Mbappe brace and Bender own goal gives visitors the advantage The
    Madrid transfer until after the end of the season, warns Mourinho He
    Torres falls over as he squanders chance Torres isn't used to having too
    Ibrahimovic praised by club legends as he prepares for Anderlecht 
    Ibrahimovic teams up with Valencia and Cole for new advert 
    Kompany train ahead of Southampton match City ramped up their preparations
    with their championship rings to mark historic World Series triumph Team
    stars mix with academy stars as they look to inspire the next generation  
    sports scientist sent off for handing out water in front of Atletico bench 
    as Manchester United board flight to Anderlecht while Mourinho takes call 
    with bandaged arm after undergoing surgery following Dortmund bus blast 
    birthday gaffe: 'Officially an adult, still haven't learned to blow out
    'ready' for crunch Champions League clash as they pose in Bayern's tunnel 
    training as Everton midfielder is seen for first time since 'unprovoked
    attack' Punched in Liverpool bar by fellow reveller
    Mount Everest as he prepares to take on Joshua 'A lot die there... some
    on overcoming mental health problems and trying to find a county Bowler is
    Wijnaldum chance their arm at American football as Cousins pays visit NFL
    League quarter-final against Bayern Munich Ronaldo and Bale both raring to
    -L-52m former Chelsea star fails to rescue Shanghai SIPG from defeat 
    Brazilian had one effort saved and blazed over 
    set off for Champions League clash with Atletico as Shakespeare looks to
    Champions League glory as he inspires new airline seat Real superstar
    Real Madrid fly to Germany to face Bayern Munich in Champions League
    top of his -L-240,000 Rolls-Royce Wraith But how does Floyd Mayweather's
    'inspirational' fiancee take New York trip after his epic win Exstatic pair
    Coleman in Ireland with staff and club captain Jagielka Seamus Coleman on
    walk with crutches after undergoing surgery on season-ending knee injury 
    incognito wearing mask in bid to become street nutmeg king Old man schools
    girls: Video from inside Clyne's birthday bash reveals what it's like to
    party Premier League style  Brilliant 24 hours 
    England seek Champions Trophy glory and admits the squad are not the
    comes through competitive return with 'no issues' Shot-stopper was in nets
    reveals he has fulfilled one of his childhood dream Young star also shared
    mesmerised Teesside... the iconic player on Boro's plight, and Coutinho's
    close friend Beckham Jnr from the spot as he drops by Spurs' training
    becomes boss of La Liga side Granada Struggling side are seven points from
    young Real Madrid mascot as he leaps in the air during walk onto Bernabeu
    eBay! Boxing superstar's Bugatti Veyron advertised online... but it'll cost
    you a whopping -L-3.2m Not an impulse purchase 
    pictures of him getting Chinese tattoo on same day he won Grand Prix  Not
    nightlife at Empire club as UFC star continues to enjoy city after cutting
    loose at Grand National Time off from training 
    day off with his brother in Hungary Day after scoring in Premier League win
    giving his ball to a delighted young fan at Augusta  There are few sweeter
    day out in Manchester The Brazilian could make a comeback from injury for
    and Tinie Tempah Sturridge enjoys time with music stars after making first
    Forlan chants during Sunderland victory United fans sang 'Diego, Diego' -
    of Chinese symbols on the same day he won the Grand Prix in Shanghai 
    who turned up to see him at a wild Grand National after party in Liverpool 
    grills as he joins Liverpool team-mates for Clyne's birthday bash  It was
    man' Wilshere  Wilshere has shared a signed shirt enscribed with a touching
    message he received from his former England team-mate 
    light-hearted podium joke after Brit seals fifth Chinese Grand Prix win 
    Hamilton referred Dutch star as a 'young dude' 
    Chinese GP weekend as Sauber driver crashes in both qualifying and the race
    It was a weekend to forget for the 23-year-old 
    for tying laces... and then gets sent off as Barcelona suffer shock defeat 
    eternal youth and the reason why Rory McIlroy can be golf's new leader  
    OLIVER HOLT: Don't make the mistake of thinking that he's retired
    Champions League games after breaking ribs  He broke two ribs in an
    against Carcamo  JEFF POWELL AT THE MANCHESTER ARENA: The Olympic golden
    Liverpool for Grand National before UFC star makes nightclub appearance  He
    shares naked photoshoot with fans  He's always in the spotlight and now
    Ronaldo has revealed all to the camera... literally! 
    enjoys day out at the races on Aintree's Ladies Day  Jones is out of action
    shows incredible power as UFC star beats record on punchbag arcade game  
    from the University of Turin with a Masters degree  Juventus defender
    triathlon... after former F1 world champion went too fast!  Button, who is
    currently McLaren's reserve driver, is a keen triathlete 
    Chalobah mimics pal Willian's trick... while wearing his Brazil shirt 
    Midfielder paid his team-mate a fine compliment 
    crystal rooster by Torino in honour of his form up front for the Italian
    club Striker hasn't chickened out of a challenge 
    Luiz takes playful aim at Chelsea captain  The skipper took one from the
    team in training at Cobham but his pal had no sympathy
    picture of him with newborn son Leonardo  Wrote heartfelt message in loving
    Rap superstar hits golf course and parties in Augusta  The Doggfather
    manager Conte found out Tottenham had fought back to beat Swansea?  Took a
    Alps: Veteran vows to upset Joshua as he reveals he's in prime physique at
    Austrian training camp  Aiming for stunning bout 
    forward Mertens scores with first touch just eight seconds after coming on
    off the bling as a potential showdown with McGregor edges ever closer Will
    bemused after match referee Stroud rules out Ritchie's penalty and awards
    after Arter followed Kane in fluffing his lines at St Mary's They both
    missed at the same end after the turf gave way
    left in a heap after getting hit between the legs Pogba's eased return back
    Ex-British Olympian Samantha Clayton is the personal trainer keeping the
    Real superstar in shape Clayton is Liverpool born
    and just 10,000 miles on the clock... Kyrgios tries to sell his BMW The
    including ex-Chelsea star Ivanovic pay tribute to victims of metro
    explosion 14 people lost their lives in a terrorist attack
    as he shows the strain of growing pressure after yet another failure with
    sparring partner Wach as he fine-tunes preparations to fight Klitschko 
    an open goal from inches out in victory over Inverness... but is his howler
    from Tintin!': Manchester United fans blame De Gea's hair for failure to
    beat Everton  'Weirdo' cut draws some interesting theories
    hits the gym on road to recovery... before eating Big Macs in McDonald's 
    tricked into donating to 'Mesut Ozil missing persons fund' Latest in a
    series of 'hilarious' filmed pranks played on stars
    doesn't look good': Keown, Rio and Wright slam Lukaku for shushing Williams
    as pair are involved in row Everton drew with United 
    Adam penalised for handball after falling over as he attempts to take
    set-piece during Stoke's Burnley loss Adam was left red-faced 
    Dowd on his bag after caddie gets held up by a storm  Webb Simpson's
    in the Arsenal squad after all... Rob Holding took spoils when he, Bellerin
    and Danny Welbeck took part in 31-second challenge
    aimed at tackling racism and promoting inclusion Ex-Man United star shared
    Real Madrid star shares glimpse of nude photoshoot on Instagram Confident
    from pregnant girlfriend Marta Dominguez The Chelsea No 1 confirmed the
    of prank TV interview only to turn the tables on the presenter Quizzed on
    his time at Manchester United as he reminisces over No 7 shirt 'It was the
    crash: I lost six pints of blood, I'm lucky to be alive MARTHA KELNER: His
    right leg bares a jagged scar five inches long
    offence as he admits: 'I don't like fish and chips'  He loves going to
    country pubs for a Sunday roast and is big fan of pies 
    fashion show in Manchester with Playboy model  A big fan of sporting stars
    after being linked with string of footballers 
    Padraig Harrington as old rival reveals his...
    among nominations for the PFA Player of the...
    adamant Juventus will not collapse like PSG in...
  • Bayern Munich 1-2 Real Madrid: Cristiano Ronaldo scores 100th goal in
    Europe as Arturo Vidal misses glorious chance from the penalty spot before
    Javi Martinez is sent off in the quarter-final first leg
  • Charlton owner Roland Duchatelet ready to sell with Australian consortium
    in talks over potential takeover of League One club
  • Rangers star Barrie McKay turns down offer to extend deal by two years 
  • David de Gea should forget about Real Madrid transfer until after the end
    of the season, says Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho
  • Atletico Madrid 1-0 Leicester City, UEFA Champions League RESULT: Antoine
    Griezmann nets controversial penalty to seal first leg victory
  • Leicester's display against Atletico Madrid was 'unbelievable', says Rio
    Ferdinand as Martin O'Neill adds second-leg will be 'tricky' for visitors
  • Leicester sports scientist Tom Joel sent to stands for handing out water in
  • Leicester fans chant 'Gibraltar is ours' during violent clashes with police
  • Arsenal boss Arsene Wenger hints at signing new deal by planning contract
  • Zlatan Ibrahimovic's Manchester United deal the exception in the precarious
  • Conor McGregor could face legal action from luxury car hire firm after UFC
  • Bayern Munich 1-2 Real Madrid, UEFA Champions League RESULT: Relive all the
  • Eden Hazard, N'Golo Kante, Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Alexis Sanchez among
    nominations for the PFA Player of the Year award
  • Atletico Madrid 1-0 Leicester City: Antoine Griezmann penalty gives
    dominant hosts victory in Champions League quarter-final first leg
  • Borussia Dortmund 2-3 Monaco, UEFA Champions League LIVE: Follow all the
    action as it happens after bus bomb explosion in Germany
  • Barcelona heading for a 'new era' after Juventus defeat as Spanish media
    report Liverpool forward Philippe Coutinho is top of summer wishlist
  • Manchester United could remain out of Champions League for another four
    years and still compete with big clubs, insists Jose Mourinho
  • He made his fortune from waste disposal... now Francesco Becchetti is
  • Tottenham star Harry Kane flaunts his -L-40,000 Jaguar World Car of the
  • Borussia Dortmund 2-3 Monaco: Kylian Mbappe brace and Sven Bender own goal
    gives visitors the advantage after a thrilling quarter-final first leg
Sitemap Archive Video Archive Topics Index Mobile Apps Screensaver RSS
Text-based site Reader Prints Our Papers Top of page
Daily Mail Mail on Sunday This is Network This is Money
Metro Jobsite Mail Travel Zoopla.co.uk Prime Location
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
(C) Associated Newspapers Ltd Contact us How to complain Advertise with us
Contributors Terms Discount Codes Privacy policy & cookies Cookie regulation
