It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
There are 2.4 billion robo-calls every month. The FCC wants to help block them.
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Brian Fung By Brian Fung  March 23  Follow @b_fung
The nation's top telecom regulator is moving further to thwart illegal
robo-calls that have annoyed countless consumers at dinnertime and scammed
The Federal Communications Commission on Thursday proposed new rules that would
allow phone companies to target and block robo-calls coming from what appear to
The rules could help cut down on the roughly 2.4 billion automated calls that
go out each month — many of them fraudulent, according to FCC Chairman Ajit
“Robo-calls are the No. 1 consumer complaint to the FCC from members of the
American public,” he said, vowing to halt people who, in some cases, pretend to
be tax officials demanding payments from consumers, or, in other cases, ask
leading questions that prompt consumers to give up personal information as part
More than 1 in 10 U.S. adults has been a victim to phone scams, said FCC
Commissioner Mignon Clyburn, citing a December study by the call-blocking
Even some major firms have faced a backlash for relying on robo-calls. In 2015,
PayPal drew criticism when it effectively forced many of its users to agree to
receive robo-calls from the company. Amid a flurry of letters from lawmakers
and complaints from the public, PayPal reversed its decision.
Still, what Pai has called a “scourge” of robo-calls has continued. Many
robo-callers deliberately “spoof” their phone numbers, he said, to hide the
true origins of their call. Phone companies are largely supportive of the FCC's
campaign; last year, AT&T helped form an industry group to devise ways to fight
“Millions of Americans are harassed by unscrupulous telemarketers and others
who often disguise their caller identification information to circumvent 'do
not call' lists and anti-robocall tools,” said Verizon in a statement. “It
The public will now have an opportunity to submit feedback on the proposal,
“Americans have run out of patience with robo-calls that ring at all hours of
the day,” said Maureen Mahoney, a policy analyst with the advocacy group
Consumers Union. “This proposal is a positive step that will help provide
President Trump approved a repeal of FCC rules that protect consumers' online
data from their Internet providers. (Jhaan Elker/The Washington Post)
Brian Fung covers technology for The Washington Post, focusing on
telecommunications, Internet access and the shifting media economy. Before
joining The Post, he was the technology correspondent for National Journal and
an associate editor at the Atlantic. Follow him at @b_fung.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
