It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
You can now call your elected officials through Facebook
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Brian Fung By Brian Fung  March 27  Follow @b_fung
Mark Zuckerberg, chief executive of Facebook. (David Paul Morris/Bloomberg
Since the election in November, U.S. lawmakers have received a deluge of phone
calls from Americans weighing in on the GOP's congressional agenda. Now,
those floodwaters may rise even higher as Facebook rolls out new tools making
it easier for users to contact their representatives. The tools, which were
being beta-tested but went live to all Facebook users Monday, could lead to a
lot more calls from constituents who are pleading to be heard.
One of Facebook's new tools, Town Hall, allows you to find out who your local,
state and federal representatives are. You can get to it by visiting
facebook.com/townhall, by looking under the "Explore" section of your News Feed
 on a desktop, or by looking in the menu of your Facebook app on your phone.
“Building a civically-engaged community means building new tools to help people
engage in a thoughtful and informed way,” Facebook chief executive Mark
Zuckerberg said in a post Monday. “The starting point is knowing who represents
you and how you can make your voice heard on the decisions that affect your
After submitting your address — which Facebook says it will use only for civic
engagement tools, not for advertising purposes — Town Hall pulls information
about your elected officials. The data comes from their public Facebook pages
or a third-party database called Cicero, which tracks who your representatives
may be, from members of Congress to your mayor and city council member. In some
cases, it can even show you who your state attorney general is.
From there, Facebook will let you contact your elected representatives directly
with a single click, by calling the first number listed on the official's
Facebook page (if you're on the social network's mobile app) or by sending an
The ability to contact to your political representatives will also be
integrated into the News Feed, according to Facebook. When you like or comment
on a post that's been published by an elected official you follow, you'll have
the option to contact that representative directly. Then, you'll be prompted to
tell other people who also follow that official that you've done so.
Could these tools have an effect on our politics? Research suggests they might.
Field studies on voter participation have shown increases in turnout when
people promise to tell their friends and family about their intention to vote.
Sharing that type of information on Facebook can also shape other Facebook
users' real-world voting behavior, according to research conducted during the
2010 election and published in the journal Nature. Facebook also said Monday
that among the tools it's releasing this week are reminders to vote in local
races on Election Day; previous reminders supported federal elections but not,
Along those lines, it's possible that using Facebook to call your
representatives in Congress may influence other people in your network to do
the same. (Here's a tip: People who've worked for Congress consistently say
that phone calls, particularly to a member's home-state office, are more
That said, the well-documented bifurcation of Facebook into two
distinct ideological camps potentially makes the rollout of these tools just
another new battleground for political organizers to fight over.
Brian Fung covers technology for The Washington Post, focusing on
telecommunications, Internet access and the shifting media economy. Before
joining The Post, he was the technology correspondent for National Journal and
an associate editor at the Atlantic. Follow him at @b_fung.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
