It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Brian Fung By Brian Fung  April 5  Follow @b_fung
A scene from “Westworld” with actors James Marsden and Evan Rachel Wood. (John
If you've been thinking about subscribing to HBO so you can watch “Westworld,”
“Game of Thrones” and other hit shows, AT&T is hoping a new promotion will lure
The cellphone carrier announced Wednesday that it will throw in a subscription
to HBO for free if you sign up for Unlimited Plus, AT&T's top-tier unlimited
The deal starts Thursday, and is eligible for new and existing AT&T customers.
A single line on Unlimited Plus costs $90 a month, and it costs about $185 a
month for four lines. Under the plan, customers receive 10 GB of mobile hotspot
tethering, and online video can be streamed in high definition.
[Verizon is reportedly planning a new streaming TV service]
Unlimited Plus customers also will get the following benefits, according to AT&
T: If you already subscribe to one of AT&T's TV services but don't have HBO, AT
&T will add that channel to your package at no extra charge. If you are already
paying for HBO, AT&T's promotion will cancel out those charges.
If you simply sign up for Unlimited Plus but choose not to add TV to your plan,
customers will access their free HBO through the app for AT&T's streaming TV
service, DirecTV Now — but won't be required to purchase a separate
subscription for the app, according an AT&T customer representative.
AT&T has been positioning itself as the leading wireless carrier for mobile
video, aggressively promoting its streaming TV service, DirecTV Now. To entice
its subscribers to add TV service, for example, AT&T offers its Unlimited Plus
With rivals such as Verizon rumored to be planning streaming TV services, it's
no surprise to see AT&T trying to make the most of its early-mover advantage.
Brian Fung covers technology for The Washington Post, focusing on
telecommunications, Internet access and the shifting media economy. Before
joining The Post, he was the technology correspondent for National Journal and
an associate editor at the Atlantic. Follow him at @b_fung.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
