It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
Analysis Interpretation of the news based on evidence, including data, as well
as anticipating how events might unfold based on past events
How Apple and Microsoft are keeping the desktop off its deathbed
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Hayley Tsukayama By Hayley Tsukayama  April 7  Follow @htsuka
The Mac Pro is aimed at heavy-duty users such as music producers, photo editors
and videographers, The desktop costs $3,000. (Apple)
Apple this week announced some minor upgrades to its Mac Pro desktop computer,
which it says will be followed by a major overhaul of its high-end Mac. It's
[DEL::DEL]been four years since Apple announced any sort of update for the
computer, leading some to worry that the company — which famously worked to
usher in a  “post-PC” era — was letting mobile overshadow the humble desktop.
But as Apple's announcement proves, we may not see desktops die completely,
even in an era when mobile devices are our most-used gadgets. What may happen,
however, is that desktop computers take on a new form. Judging by what
companies have been trying lately to keep excitement alive in desktops,
consumers may see the companies shift from affordable computers that can work
in every home to higher-end, more specialized machines.
There's no denying desktops have been on the decline. Sales growth for
computers, particularly desktops, has been sliding since 2012, according to
consulting firm IDC. A recent study showed that Android overtook Windows as the
world's most-used operating system overall. A similar thing happened with Apple
in 2012 when its mobile operating system, iOS, was logged as getting more usage
than Apple's desktop operating system as consumers turned more to their
Basically, desktops have seen their main functions eroded by an army of new
devices. Need a big keyboard on which to type? There's a cheap laptop, or a
Bluetooth keyboard, for that. Want to stream an online movie? You can do that
But the truth is that we may never go truly “post-PC”  — or post-Mac, as the
flurry of breathless articles over Apple's plans for the Mac Pro indicated.
There's always going to be things for which we need a computer. In fact,
Deloitte last year claimed in a study that even the youngest of millennials,
those ages 18 to 24, are still relying on desktops and laptops a lot for
specific tasks, including shopping, banking, watching video and creating text
On top of that, companies are working to create desktops that fit into a world
where mobile devices are increasingly doing most of the heavy lifting.
For Apple, part of the solution seems to be making the Mac Pro more
customizable, and therefore more flexible when it comes to fitting people's
needs. It's also more closely marrying the mobile and desktop
experiences. Craig Federighi, Apple's senior vice president of software
engineering, said that the company is working on making the iPad Pro work
better with the desktop as a way to convince people that they still need both
Microsoft appears to be dealing with PC shifts by taking the best of mobile
technology and bringing it to the desktop, often in big, beautiful fashion. The
Surface Studio, a 28-inch touch screen desktop computer that's also $3,000,
lets you use a stylus as well as a dial that Microsoft designed just for this
Samsung is trying to make your desk completely mobile-based. The company this
month showed off a desktop mode for its upcoming Galaxy S8 phones, which lets
you plug your phone into a $150 dock and use it with a monitor, keyboard and
mouse for a more desktop-like experience. It's the kind of product that, in
theory, that could kill the desktop as a widespread device. But it will take
some time for mobile solutions like this to take off because they're still a
little bit rough around the edges, said Gartner analyst Mikako Kitagawa.
“The reality of putting your small device onto your large screen is that you
have to adjust screen size and applications to fit. Those little subtle changes
are hectic, and it's not realistic to use them,” she said. 
So, judging by how the desktop market has evolved over the past several years —
and where it's headed — the upshot seems to be that you'll probably be spending
more for a desktop, but possibly using it for fewer things.
Kitagawa said that, in her opinion, desktops will settle at around the
$800-$1,000 range for consumers who don't want the high-end machines that you'd
see in a professional setting, but want the power for gaming, video and photo
Hayley Tsukayama covers consumer technology for The Washington Post.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
