It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
Republicans voted to roll back landmark FCC privacy rules. Here’s what you need
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Brian Fung By Brian Fung  March 28  Follow @b_fung
The Senate and House have voted to repeal an FCC ruling that protects your
Internet privacy and data from ISPs. Here's all the steps you can take to
protect yourself. (Jhaan Elker/The Washington Post)
House Republicans voted Tuesday to repeal a set of landmark privacy protections
for Web users, in a sharp pivot away from the Internet policies of the Obama
administration. President Trump is expected to sign the measure.
Tuesday's vote is likely to lend momentum to a broader rollback of Obama-era
policies, particularly in the technology sector. And it empowers Internet
providers to enter the $83 billion market for online advertising, where the
ability to collect, store, share and sell consumers' behavioral information is
directly linked to companies' bottom line. Proponents of the repeal argue the
regulations stifle innovation by forcing Internet providers to abide by
unreasonably strict guidelines. But defenders of the privacy rules say they are
the only thing preventing broadband companies from spying on their customers
Broadband companies such as Verizon and Comcast are racing to develop ways to
mine and analyze customer information — such as their browsing habits, app
usage history, location information and more. The FCC's rules, which were
passed in October in what was billed as a rare victory for privacy
advocates, had set limits on how Internet providers could use that information,
seeking to give consumers more control over the data they generate as they
traverse the Web on their smartphones and computers. They were scheduled to go
The new legislative measure would effectively allow providers to access and use
a wide range of customer data without seeking their users' explicit consent,
much as Google and Facebook do now. It also releases Internet providers from
obligations to increase protections of customer information against hackers and
thieves. And it prohibits the nation's top telecom regulator, the Federal
Communications Commission, from seeking to restore its privacy regulations in
Many broadband companies say those rules are unnecessary because they already
offer detailed privacy policies and take steps to defend their businesses from
online attack. Industry groups said Tuesday that narrower definitions of
privacy from other federal agencies are sufficient to protect consumers, but
declined to say whether they would support beefing up those measures.
Technically known as “a joint resolution of congressional disapproval,” the
House voted on a measure that would repeal what policy experts refer to as
simply the FCC's broadband privacy rules. The measure will now go to the White
What are these rules Republicans are trying to repeal?
1) They require Internet providers to be transparent about how they handle your
data, such as the sites you visit and your Social Security number. Providers
have to disclose what they collect about users, as well as how and why they use
that data. They also must make public who else might see that data as a result
2) The rules specify the conditions under which Internet providers may use
certain types of data. Under the rules, Internet providers must get your
explicit permission to share or sell things such as your geolocation
information, your health information, your children's information, your
financial information, your Social Security number, your browsing history, your
app usage history or the content of your messages, emails and other
communications. This means that Internet providers can't place a notification
about their practices in fine print and say they got your permission when you
clicked “okay” — they must instead offer clear notices to ensure that consumers
know what they're agreeing to. Any other types of information that Internet
providers share, such as the data plan you've purchased, are considered
“nonsensitive” by the FCC; while Internet providers don't need to ask for
explicit permission before collecting it, they must allow consumers to opt out
3) The FCC rules require Internet providers to meet industry standards on
security, protecting user data from theft and fraud.
House voted to repeal the rules. What happens now?
Assuming Trump signs the measure, Internet providers will be freed from those
obligations, which would otherwise have taken effect later this year. With this
data, Internet providers can sell highly targeted ads, making them rivals to
Internet providers also will be free to use customer data in other ways, such
as selling the information directly to data brokers that target lucrative or
“ISPs like Comcast, AT&T, and Charter will be free to sell your personal
information to the highest bidder without your permission — and no one will be
able to protect you,” wrote Gigi Sohn, a former FCC staffer who helped draft
the privacy rules, in a recent blog post on the Verge.
Selling your data is merely one of the four ways in which Internet providers
intend to make money off consumers. The others include selling you access to
the Internet, as they have traditionally done; selling access to media content
they've acquired by purchasing large entertainment companies; and selling
advertising that directly targets you based on the data the provider has
collected by watching how you use the Internet and what content you consume.
Potentially. AT&T, for instance, used to offer Internet discounts to consumers
in exchange for letting the company monitor their browsing history. Such
programs could see a return, and be marketed as a way to access cheaper
Internet. Industry advocates also argue that data-driven targeting leads
But overall, repealing the rules gives Internet providers more power over
Don't companies such as Google and Facebook already use my data for
They do. But much of the debate is over whether Internet providers should enjoy
the same privileges. Just because online companies take advantage of your data,
consumer groups say, doesn't mean Americans should have to submit to Internet
providers (or any other industry) that wants to do the same. And although
consumers can generally switch from one search engine or online video service
to another, they add, switching Internet providers is much harder — especially
when many Americans have only one or two choices of broadband company.
By contrast, GOP lawmakers and industry advocates argue the FCC rules stifle
business and innovation. And, they say, companies such as Facebook are already
subject to certain privacy guidelines published by the Federal Trade
Commission, so it would be better if telecom and cable companies lived under
those expectations, not the more expansive definition of privacy approved by
“The question is: Why would you have different rules for ISPs in that regard
than the rest of the Internet ecosystem?” said Howard Waltzman, general counsel
for the 21st Century Privacy Coalition, an industry-aligned advocacy
Can't the FTC go after Internet providers with its rules?
At the moment, not really. The reason has to do with the FCC's rules on net
neutrality. When the FCC passed those rules, it branded all Internet providers
as “common carriers,” essentially a fancy legal term to describe traditional
The problem is that the FTC is bound by something called the “common carrier
exemption.” The agency isn't allowed to take action against companies that have
been labeled common carriers by the FCC. (The idea behind the exemption is to
prevent both agencies from going after the same companies twice for the same
So if the House vote succeeds and Trump signs the measure, that releases
Internet providers from the FCC's privacy regulation but does not do anything
to apply the FTC's own privacy guidelines to the industry. The FCC can still
sue companies after they have allegedly violated consumer privacy, industry
groups say. So can state attorneys general. But the FCC will be unable to write
regulations that preemptively bar privacy violations, meaning that Internet
providers will be subject to less oversight as a result of the congressional
Brian Fung covers technology for The Washington Post, focusing on
telecommunications, Internet access and the shifting media economy. Before
joining The Post, he was the technology correspondent for National Journal and
an associate editor at the Atlantic. Follow him at @b_fung.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
