It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
Three things Samsung says its Bixby assistant will do that Siri can’t
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Hayley Tsukayama By Hayley Tsukayama  March 20  Follow @htsuka
A general view of a Samsung booth is seen in this 2014 photo at the
International Consumer Electronics Show event in Las Vegas. (David Becker/Getty
Samsung on Monday officially revealed Bixby, its new voice assistant and Siri
rival. Bixby will debut on the Samsung Galaxy S8, which the firm is revealing
later this month, the company said in a blog post.
Samsung has voice recognition, called S Voice, on its phones. But analysts have
been expecting a more sophisticated AI on Samsung phones since last year when
the company bought Viv, which was founded by Siri's original creators. While
the company didn't dish many details about Bixby, it did lay out some
For one, Samsung said that Bixby can control your phone more thoroughly than
other voice assistants. According to Samsung's post, Bixby should let you
operate compatible apps completely by voice, without having to touch the screen
at all. Some voice assistants, including Siri, can interact with other apps in
a limited way. For example, Siri can specifically order an Uber or have Yelp
look up a restaurant near you, but you have to use the touch screen for other
Bixby also shouldn't get confused if you want to mix and match voice and touch
controls. Samsung put it this way: "Bixby will allow users to weave various
modes of interactions including touch or voice at any context of the
application, whichever they feel is most comfortable and intuitive." In plainer
English, it sounds like you could, for example, ask Bixby to open a restaurant
reservation app, then use the touchscreen yourself to whittle down your options
before asking Bixby to place the reservation for you.
Finally, Bixby is also supposed to be more conversational. If it can't
understand the way you've phrased a request, Samsung said, it will do what it
can, and then ask follow-up questions. That way, users don't have to phrase
things perfectly to be understood. Siri can sometimes provoke rage when you're
asking it to do something complex — only to get a, “Sorry, I missed that” in
Of course, we won't know how well any of this works until Bixby's public debut
on the S8 next week. But if Samsung can deliver the big promises it has made,
Hayley Tsukayama covers consumer technology for The Washington Post.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
