It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
Hands-on with the Samsung Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus: As first impressions go, this
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Hayley Tsukayama By Hayley Tsukayama  March 29  Follow @htsuka
Shown is the Samsung Galaxy S8 Plus, the larger of Samsung's two phones
introduced on March 29. (Hayley Tsukayama/The Washington Post)
Samsung's new Galaxy S8 (and its bigger sibling, the Galaxy S8 Plus) are
designed to reintroduce the public to Samsung as the company tries to put the
And, as first impressions go, this is a doozy. If Samsung is trying to wow us
into trusting it again, it's done a pretty good job with this highly-polished,
The obvious star of the show here is the screen, which takes up nearly all of
the front of the new smartphones. Samsung has managed to maximize the screen
here by concealing the physical home button underneath the screen, and using
virtual buttons that can disappear when they're not in use.
The result is surprisingly impressive. Given that Samsung has had a similar
edge-to-edge design on the Galaxy S7 Edge for a couple of years now, I wasn't
expecting to be impressed by a little more room. But kicking out the home
button does make a noticeable difference on the phone — giving you more screen
The two handsets, fitted with screens of 5.8 and 6.2 inches, include Samsung's
upgraded digital assistant Bixby, competing in a crowded field that includes
Apple's Siri, Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa. (Timothy A. Clary/AFP/Getty
The change does give both the S8 and S8 Plus a slightly weird screen size —
they feel just a bit too tall for their width — that may be annoying to watch
video on over time. The Galaxy S8 has a 5.8-inch screen, while the S8 Plus has
a 6.2-inch screen. Despite the odd shape, both models provide a lot of screen
for a phone that I can use conveniently with one hand. That's not something I
could say of the Note 7, which had a 5.7-inch screen. I can't even really say
I thought the virtual buttons might throw me off as well, given my experience
with similar designs in the past. But Samsung seems to have done a good job in
making sure the button is always accessible, at least from what I saw.
The phone is also very fast and feels powerful. I spent a little time with
Samsung DeX, the desktop mode that lets you plug your phone into a monitor and
special dock (sold separately for about $160), which was also impressive at
first blush. Samsung's secured full support for Microsoft Office for the mode,
which makes it feel about as capable as a netbook — one that also shows you
your text, call and other notifications. You can pair a Bluetooth keyboard and
mouse to the DeX dock, or opt to plug one in, so you can use all the same
keyboard commands you're used to, as well as the option to drag and drop.
Samsung has included many of the features that made its phones great in the
first place, including the option to expand the memory with your own SD card
and waterproofing. It even improved the quality of the front-facing, a.k.a.
selfie, camera. It's now 8 MP, up from 5 MP on the S7, and will now autofocus
Overall, I was pretty impressed with the look and capabilities of the S8 and S8
Plus, and would tentatively say it's worth upgrading from an S7. (And certainly
from an S6.) That said, there's so much about the phone that we still don't
know. Yes, of course, there's the question of whether it will suffer the same
battery problems as the Note 7 — unlikely, given Samsung's new safety measures,
It's worth remembering that the Note 7 had rave reviews, too. Until the fires
And there are also some things that Samsung has promised that I'll need to try
for a while before I pass final judgment. For example, I didn't get any real
sense of how effective Bixby, the company's new voice assistant, worked in
conversation — demonstration halls are notoriously noisy. The features I did
see, including its ability to search online for product just by snapping a
picture of something, were still in tightly controlled demonstration mode.
That's a pretty important feature to try before coming to a decision on whether
this is a phone I'd recommend over, say, Apple's iPhone. Because while the new
screen design is nice — and it is, it should be said again, very pretty — a
little bit of beauty is not what's going to tip people over the edge when
Hayley Tsukayama covers consumer technology for The Washington Post.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
