It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
You can now put multiple personalities onto your iPhone — but do you want to?
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Hayley Tsukayama By Hayley Tsukayama  March 17  Follow @htsuka
I David Limp, Amazon senior vice president of devices, demonstrates an Echo Dot
in San Francisco in March 2016. Amazon.com is introducing two devices, the
Amazon Tap and Echo Dot, that are designed to amplify the role that its
voice-controlled assistant Alexa plays in people’s homes and lives. (Jeff Chiu/
The war of the personal digital assistants got hotter this week. Amazon
officially announced that it’s putting its Alexa voice assistant on the iPhone.
Alexa is available through Amazon’s iOS shopping app. It is not yet available
With Alexa joining Microsoft's Cortana in challenging Siri on Apple's own
turf, it brings up the question for consumers of whether it's worth installing
multiple voice assistants on their iPhones. Answering that question for
yourself  is easiest if you know the strengths and weaknesses of each
[I have five digital ‘personal assistants’ and still can’t get anything done]
Let's start with Alexa. Alexa is mostly associated with the Echo line of smart
speakers, and is best at answering questions, setting timers and performing
various skills that users can pick from an ever-growing list of options. Alexa
in an Echo can give you a newsflash from National Public Radio, for example, or
(Amazon's chief executive, Jeffrey P. Bezos, is the owner of The Washington
On the iPhone, however, the assistant's options are more limited.  For example,
I couldn't get a news briefing from the Alexa in Amazon's iPhone app. I
couldn't set a timer, either. But other features do work, such as getting
answers to questions such as “Who was the eighth president of the United
States?”  Integration with Amazon services works, too, so you'll be able to ask
Alexa to search Amazon.com for the products you want.
Microsoft’s Cortana is good for scheduling meetings and reminders that come up
during the day. But I’ve found it’s better as a desktop or laptop assistant. On
mobile devices, it requires a separate download to get on your phone. That
means that you will always have to open the app to use it — at which point you
Which brings us to Siri and its greatest advantage: It is the default personal
assistant on the iPhone. You can summon it with your voice, if you choose that
The always-on function of the integrated voice assistant[DEL::DEL], while a
potentially troubling notion for those worried about surveillance, offers
convenience. Being able to send a text without looking at your phone, or to set
a timer while your hands are covered in cake batter, is the true advantage of
[These smart TVs were apparently spying on their owners]
So while there are benefits to installing multiple assistants on one phone,
chances are most people will find it easiest to stick to one. Even if all
assistants could add always-on voice control, thinking through when you want to
say “Hey, Siri” vs. “Alexa!” might offset the time you wanted to save by
They do all tell some pretty lousy jokes, though, if you're in the market for
Hayley Tsukayama covers consumer technology for The Washington Post.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
