It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
Why Samsung’s name for its personal assistant may twist quite a few tongues
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Hayley Tsukayama By Hayley Tsukayama  March 23  Follow @htsuka
A Galaxy banner hangs above Samsung's area at the Mobile World Congress in
If Samsung has its way, we’ll all be bellowing voice commands to “Bixby,” the
company’s new voice assistant. Yet Bixby could be hard for some users to call
upon because of the placement of one letter: the “x.”
The “x” in Bixby sounds essentially like a “k” and an “s” combined, which is
difficult for many people around the world to say, according to linguists,
including for those in Samsung's native South Korea.
“Lots of languages do not allow for certain kinds of consonant clusters,”
William Idsardi, head of the linguistics department at the University of
The problem, he said, is also exacerbated by the fact that a “b” comes right
after the “x,” making it a three-consonant cluster (“k”, “s” and the “b"). In
languages such as Korean and Japanese, speakers would have to put an extra
vowel in between the “x” and “b” to make it possible for them to say it. That’s
something that competitor Alexa from Amazon.com manages to avoid, despite
having an “x” in its name. So does Samsung's “Galaxy” line.
(Amazon chief executive Jeffrey P. Bezos owns The Washington Post)
The company hasn’t released much information on how it chose the name; Samsung
did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Samsung isn't alone in naming woes. When Siri came out, Apple took some
flak when people noticed the “si” in English becomes a “shi” in Japanese
pronunciation — and “shiri” is the Japanese word for one's posterior. (It's
more commonly “oshiri,” but the association sticks.)
While it is easy to pile onto Samsung for its linguistic hiccup, the truth is
that it’s very difficult to choose a name for anything, said Barbara Kahn, a
professor of marketing at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School.
First, companies must choose a name that isn’t trademarked anywhere else, or at
least not in a way that will conflict with their own products. Then, she said,
they must conduct an exhaustive test to make sure that the word they choose
isn’t associated with anything bad or laughably damaging to the product. Think
of the cautionary (though apparently apocryphal) tale of the Chevy Nova, which
was said to sell poorly in Spanish-speaking countries because its name sounded
Finally, companies must also choose a word that gives them the opportunity to
make their own brand. Even if that word is hard to pronounce, Kahn said,
companies can make it their own. She pointed to Aflac, the insurance company
that turned its original acronym into a new word, as an example of a company
that has embraced the weirdness of its name to great effect.
Bixby can also be a good brand for Samsung because it doesn’t have many
preexisting associations with it, said Laurel Sutton, co-founder of the naming
firm Catchword, linguist and information officer for the American Name Society.
Sutton said that some may remember “Incredible Hulk” actor Bill Bixby, or know
another person with that name, but it’s not a particularly common word.
And when it comes to voice assistants, picking an uncommon word is important.
Tech firms must choose names that won’t be confused easily with other words, so
that the assistant doesn’t trigger by accident. But it also must be a word that
In that way, Sutton said, Samsung chose a good word. Having a consonant cluster
flanked by two vowel sounds, she said, makes “Bixby” both unique and easy to
pick up for a computer. Alexa, she said, also uses this trick. The pattern is
also repeated in another trademark, “Kestra,” that Samsung registered for voice
assistants in the U.S. Trademark Office's public database.
Overall, Kahn says that Samsung did a good job picking a name. And, in the end,
the name is only part of the equation. If Samsung proves Bixby has value to its
customers — however they say it — that’s what will make or break the assistant.
“Ultimately, what your brand name means is what consumers think it means,” she
Hayley Tsukayama covers consumer technology for The Washington Post.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
