It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
Most Americans want to let cities build and sell homegrown Internet service
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Brian Fung By Brian Fung  April 11 at 1:41 PM  Follow @b_fung
With Internet providers ranking near the bottom of customer satisfaction
surveys, 7 in 10 Americans say their towns or communities should be allowed to
build new Internet networks that compete with large, established providers,
according to new data from the Pew Research Center.
The latest findings add to a long-running battle over restrictions — often
written by state legislatures and supported by telecom and cable companies —
that prevent local governments from establishing homegrown rivals to ISPs such
as AT&T or Charter. And, policy analysts say, the results underscore a gulf in
attitudes about public infrastructure spending — although perhaps not the kind
Substantial majorities of Democrats and Republicans back the ability of towns
to build and sell their own Internet plans to local residents, according to the
study. Although conservatives are slightly more likely than liberals to say
they are a bad idea, just 27 percent of Americans overall say local governments
shouldn't be able to offer competing service, Pew's survey found. (The same
study found that Americans largely oppose government subsidies for low-income
Internet users, which is timely in light of a recent government decision.)
Proponents of independent Internet networks argue that a “public option” for
Internet access could help drive down the price of broadband and increase
speeds. Opponents say the expense of building new networks represents an
unacceptable financial risk for many local governments.
“Municipal broadband networks too often end up failing and costing taxpayers
millions,” said USTelecom, a trade association representing Internet providers
Some public projects have resulted in high-profile failures. In 2009, residents
of Burlington, Vt., learned that its mayor at the time, Bob Kiss, quietly used
$17 million in city funds to prop up the local public broadband utility,
Burlington Telecom. The utility is now in the process of being auctioned off as
part of a negotiated settlement. Delays and cost overruns were also a feature
But the movement to build public broadband has also led to successes. Long
before Google Fiber came on the scene and began challenging incumbent ISPs, the
city of Chattanooga, Tenn., was competing aggressively with offers of download
speeds up to 1 gigabit per second. In 2013, the city dropped its prices from
$300 a month to $70 — and in 2015 opened up a new service tier of 10 Gbps.
After relying primarily on bond money and declining to fund the project with a
new city tax, Chattanooga turned its fiber network into what its manager has
Where they are allowed to, other towns have increasingly moved to build their
own independent networks. For example, the government of Colorado Springs,
recently became the 100th jurisdiction in the state to vote to overcome the
Colorado legislature's restrictions on municipal broadband, said Christopher
Mitchell, a public broadband advocate at the Institute for Local Self-Reliance
“In Colorado, we see liberal cities like Boulder, conservative cities like
Colorado Springs, and many conservative counties putting, in some sense, their
While Colorado law allows cities and towns to move forward with municipal
broadband if enough residents vote to approve it, other states can be more
restrictive. Chattanooga became part of a high-profile legal battle in 2015,
when it asked the federal government to help it overcome restrictions put in
Under those rules, the city's Internet network was not allowed to grow to serve
neighboring customers. Regulators at the Federal Communications
Commission voted to supersede the state regulation, but a year later they were
defeated when a federal court ruled the move unconstitutional.
Lawmakers in Congress lined up for and against the FCC's initial vote on a
partisan basis, with Democrats siding with Chattanooga and Republicans siding
against it. But the picture is different at the local level, where few partisan
“The most striking thing is how out of touch Republicans in Washington, D.C.
are from their base,” he said. “I talk to Republicans at the local level
regularly, especially in rural communities — and they all realize they need the
Brian Fung covers technology for The Washington Post, focusing on
telecommunications, Internet access and the shifting media economy. Before
joining The Post, he was the technology correspondent for National Journal and
an associate editor at the Atlantic. Follow him at @b_fung.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
