It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
Samsung tries to reclaim its reputation with the Galaxy S8
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Hayley Tsukayama By Hayley Tsukayama  March 29  Follow @htsuka
Samsung reveals its latest Galaxy phone after last year's failed launch of the
Galaxy Note 7 due to several battery explosions. See its Infinity screen, new
battery regulations and new artificial intelligence, Bixby. (Samsung)
NEW YORK — Samsung on Wednesday unveiled its latest premium smartphones, the
Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus, which the company hopes will restore its reputation as
To do that, of course, Samsung must recover from the disastrous recall of its
last premium phone, the Galaxy Note 7. Samsung was forced to discontinue that
product after a rash of battery fires, and also chose to delay the launch of
these new phones in the wake of the controversy. DJ Koh, the head of Samsung’s
mobile division, opened the presentation by acknowledging that 2016 had been a
difficult year for the company. But he also added that this launch marks the
[Hands-on with the Samsung Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus: As first impressions go, this
Samsung was clearly eager to move on and reclaim its reputation as an
innovator. Before the Note 7, Samsung had shaken off its old image of being a
copycat and had ushered in the era of larger-screened phones — a move that
arguably prompted its chief rival, Apple, to make a larger iPhone, analysts
The two handsets, fitted with screens of 5.8 and 6.2 inches, include Samsung's
upgraded digital assistant Bixby, competing in a crowded field that includes
Apple's Siri, Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa. (Timothy A. Clary/Agence
Overall, analysts said that Samsung pulled off a strong performance Wednesday
and possibly set the tone for a more innovative smartphone cycle in 2017.
“We are seeing some great design innovation from Samsung this year and expect
the same from Apple,” said Jefferson Wang, senior partner at IBB Consulting, in
an email. The phones released this year — with curved screens and big displays
— should set a new template for the next couple of years, he said.
In terms of innovation, Samsung's new phones pick up where the company had left
As expected, the S8 and S8 Plus ditch the physical home button to give the
touch screen as much real estate as possible. As with Samsung's Galaxy Edge
devices, the phones also have displays that curve over their sides.
The new devices have a variety of security features — an iris scanner,
fingerprint scanner and facial recognition sensor — that can be used to secure
the phone as well as other services, including Samsung Pay and Samsung Health.
The phones will go on sale April 21, on AT&T, Verizon, T-Mobile and Sprint.
While prices may vary by carrier and payment plan, the suggested price of the
Galaxy S8 is $720; the Galaxy S8 Plus will cost $840.
The screens for the Galaxy S8 and S8 Plus measure 5.8 inches and 6.2 inches,
respectively, but are slim enough to fit in one hand without feeling too bulky.
Samsung also introduced a new mode, DeX, that allows the phones to plug into a
monitor and special charging dock and perform desktop functions such as email
and even Microsoft Word programs. The dock is sold separately.
Samsung revealed more about its new digital assistant, Bixby. The
voice-controlled assistant is integrated with the phones' cameras so users can
snap pictures of products, which Bixby will then search for online. The
assistant can figure out your location from a picture and look for restaurants
or other attractions nearby. Unlike its closest competitor, Apple's Siri, Bixby
can also fully control some apps by voice — but right now nearly all of those
Bixby is still not as comprehensive as many analysts had hoped. “Samsung’s
initial Bixby implementation falls short of its goal of being a comprehensive
AI assistant because of weak app integration and limited voice compatibility,”
said Ian Fogg, analyst at IHS Markit, in an email. Until Samsung expands the
assistant — and supports languages apart from English and Korean — it won’t be
competitive, Fogg added. In fact, he said, many users may not even choose it
for the S8, which also ships with a Bixby competitor, Google Assistant.
The Galaxy S8 provides hints of Samsung's ambition to be a major player in the
smart-home market. The company introduced an app called Samsung Connect, which
shows users a unified list of all their smart devices, and lets them control
them from the phone. As might be expected, the products listed in the demo,
including a refrigerator and a robot vacuum, were all made by Samsung. That was
a nod to the broad base of products that Samsung makes, which gives it an
advantage over Apple and Google — the latter is its partner on Android but also
The company also continued to tout its progress in virtual reality, which it 
views as a complement to its mobile-phone business. Samsung introduced a new
version of its 360-degree camera, the Gear 360, which is now able to
[DEL::DEL]Samsung's new features should also push Apple, analysts say. “The
consumer is the big winner in all of this. We have genuine first-class
competition among major players,” said Thomas Cooke, professor at Georgetown
Hayley Tsukayama covers consumer technology for The Washington Post.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
