It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
People in wheelchairs couldn’t see Yayoi Kusama’s ‘Infinity Mirrors.’ The
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Steven Overly By Steven Overly  March 9  Follow @stevenoverly
Volunteer Megan Walline experiences the installation “Infinity Mirrored Room —
All the Eternal Love I Have for the Pumpkins” as the Hirshhorn museum trains
staff and volunteers on crowd issues and other matters in advance of “Yayoi
Kusama: Infinite Mirrors.” on Feb. 16 in Washington. (Photo by Bill O’Leary/The
The magic of the “Infinity Mirrors” exhibit begins as soon as the door is
closed behind you. Surrounded by mirrors on all sides, visitors find themselves
at the center of a seemingly endless plain filled with brightly colored lights
But curators at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, where the exhibit is
on display until May 14, faced an early challenge: how to re-create that magic
“We had to work out how we could make this experience accessible for people
with mobility disabilities,” said Beth Ziebarth, director of the Smithsonian’s
Drew Doucette, who oversees multimedia and technology initiatives at the
Hirshhorn, thought immediately of virtual reality.
“It’s really popular right now” among video gamers and tech geeks, Doucette
said. “Rather than it being something that you play with, there’s an actual use
for it if it’s around making things accessible to people as best as you can.”
Virtual reality has found many uses beyond just entertainment. News outlets,
nongovernmental organizations and charities have turned to the technology to
raise awareness for causes and tell more engaging stories. Applications have
also been explored in the education, health care and defense industries, to
Beth Ziebarth, director of the Smithsonian’s Accessibility Program,
demonstrates a Samsung virtual reality headset that helps individuals with
mobility disabilities to experience the “Infinity Mirror Rooms” exhibit.
The Renwick Gallery, National Museum of Natural History and other Smithsonian
Institution sites have created virtual experiences in the past, often with the
goal of extending the exhibit to people or students who may not be able to
visit in person. The “Infinity Mirrors” exhibit marks the first time any have
used virtual reality to make an exhibit accessible to those with disabilities,
The wildly popular art exhibit is spread across six portable rooms, each filled
with objects created by Japanese artist Yayoi Kusama. There’s the room with
canary yellow pumpkins, the one with hot pink spheres and the room with simple
pendant lights. Mirrored walls replicate these items over and over again to
The installation is designed to be immersive — and, as social media proves,
    I am fighting off a bad cold, but pro tip: visiting the hirshhorn's #
    infinitekusama hopped up on Day-Quil makes it EXTRA TRIPPY. pic.twitter.com
    — Maura Judkis (@MauraJudkis) February 21, 2017
But in three of the rooms, visitors must walk through 30-inch doorways and onto
platforms less than four feet wide to achieve the full experience. The
Americans With Disabilities Act dictates that wheelchair-bound individuals be
able to make a 180-degree turn inside the room, a requirement the Hirshhorn
could not meet without altering each room and the artist’s intention behind it.
The installation, “Infinity Mirrored Room — Aftermath of Obliteration of
Eternity” at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden . (Photo by Bill O’Leary
It took roughly four months to plan and design the Infinity Mirrors virtual
reality experience on Unity, a program typically used to build video games, 
Doucette said. At first, an engineer tried to replicate each room literally.
But designing a three dimensional space covered in mirrors proved more
“We essentially had to take a step back from trying to recreate the rooms and
get into the head of Kusama and say, ‘What was she trying to do? How did she
Without the limitations of a physical space, Doucette said, mirrors weren’t
necessary at all. Instead, the engineer merely created a digital replica of
the room as it appears to the viewer, including black lines where the seams of
the mirrors would appear. Early screen captures of the project earned Kusama’s
approval, and a representative from her studio signed off on the final version,
Users wearing the goggles can pivot their head side to side or move forward as
they would in the actual room. It doesn’t quite capture the immersive
experience of standing in the actual mirrored rooms, but, in a way, the view
actually appears even more infinite than the original.
The Hirshhorn offers six Samsung virtual reality headsets that visitors with
disabilities can request from volunteers on site. They are only available to
patrons who are not physically capable of entering the rooms, though, so don’t
look to VR to help you skip the exhibit’s notoriously long lines.
“I think that VR has a home in museums now, especially museums that are
bringing in physical spaces and physical environments that you are supposed to
walk into and experience, not just see something on the wall,” Doucette said.
“When you are told you have to go into the space to experience this and you’re
not able to do that, this is the perfect solution for it.”
See inside the much-hyped Yayoi Kusama exhibition at the Hirshhorn
Free timed passes to the exhibition are being snatched up within minutes of
Free timed passes to the exhibition are being snatched up within minutes of
  A giant polka dot ribbon circles the Hirshhorn Museum for “Yayoi Kusama:
Infinite Mirrors,” which runs until May 14. Bill O’Leary/The Washington Post
Read more from The Washington Post’s Innovations section. 
News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11.
News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history.
Steven Overly anchors and edits The Washington Post's Innovations blog, where
he explores emerging technologies and groundbreaking ideas. Since joining The
Post in 2010, he has also covered technology policy and local business. Steven
completed the Knight-Bagehot Fellowship in Economics and Business Journalism at
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
Sign up for email updates from the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
You have signed up for the "Confronting the Caliphate" series.
You'll receive e-mail when new stories are published in this series.
    As his advertisers exit, Bill O’Reilly announces that he’s taking a
    ‘He heard people yelling, ‘No, don’t!’’: Inside the murder-suicide in a San
    Letterman’s mom was everyone’s mom: Dorothy Mengering dead at 95
    In the Tennessee Delta, a poor community loses its hospital — and sense of
    During border visit, Sessions outlines immigration plan
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
