Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Analysis Interpretation of the news based on evidence, including data, as well
as anticipating how events might unfold based on past events
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Fredrick Kunkle By Fredrick Kunkle  March 10  Follow @KunkleFredrick
Uber has been burning capital for some time now. This includes not just real
money but also that intangible commodity known as goodwill.
In recent weeks, Uber has taken the sort of beating that most taxi companies
get only from a poorly maintained city street. A string of embarrassing
disclosures has led some longtime company observers to wonder how long the
ride-hailing service will be around — or at least how long co-founder Travis
“Uber is doomed,” Jalopnik pronounced last month in an article explaining why
the money-losing venture would end up in a ditch. And that was before the run
of bad news accelerated. The Atlantic’s CityLab also sees a cloudy future for
Uber, but not as dark as others may forecast. Among the painful disclosures in
  • Uber developed a secret weapon to evade regulators. Known as “Greyball,”
    the software was designed to fool hostile traffic officials into thinking
    they were hailing rides through the app when in fact Uber was making sure
    that drivers avoided picking up undercover agents who might be part of a
    sting. On Wednesday, the San Francisco-based company said it would stop
    using the tool to thwart regulators. Use of the software was first reported
  • Former employees say that Uber, which launched a self-driving vehicle
    project in San Francisco last year without the approval of California state
    regulators, later blamed human drivers for serious lapses caused by its
    technology, the Times also reported. Citing accounts from former employees
    and Uber documents, the news organization said the company’s autonomous
    cars blew through six red lights because of flaws in its mapping
  • Kalanick received the sort of publicity no one would want after Bloomberg
    published a video of the CEO arguing with one of his drivers about pricing
    policy. “I lost $97,000 because of you. I’m bankrupt because of you,” the
    driver says in the video. Kalanick’s temper heats up as the exchange
    continues. “You know what, some people don’t like to take responsibility
    for their own,” Kalanick says in the video. “They blame everything in their
The argument — which was captured by a dash cam — went viral, leading Kalanick
  • A self-driving car company that had been created by Google filed a lawsuit 
    accusing Uber of stealing technology. The lawsuit, filed by Waymo, says a
    former tech wiz who now works for Uber raided his former employer’s servers
  • A barrage of stories suggesting that Uber has fostered a male-dominated
    libertarian corporate culture that Ayn Rand might find creepy and
    over-the-top. Susan J. Fowler, a former site-reliability engineer, said in
    a blog post last month that sexual harassment was common and sometimes
    winked at by higher-ups. The company’s frat house rep has become so well
    known that former Uber employees now have to “prove” they’re not jerks,
For some, Uber’s turnabout is the stuff of Greek tragedy, a form of divine
justice directed toward a company whose credo has been growth at all costs,
“It’s sort of the culture that got them there,” said Harry Campbell, a
ride-hailing driver who runs the Rideshare Guy blog. Now, many people are
acting as if they’re not so sure they like what they used to cheer on, back in
the days when Uber was the upstart overturning the taxi and limousine business
city by city, before the underdog became the uber-dog.
[Uber drivers earn about $15.68 an hour but disparities are significant, survey
Campbell said the two most devastating stories in the recent cycle of bad press
for Uber are the sexual harassment allegations and the dash cam video — and
that might be enough to knock any company off balance.
“Now, with the pile-on, it shows it’s more systemic,” he said.
Steven Hill, who wrote about Uber in his book about the sharing economy,
compared Uber’s alleged deception about its autonomous vehicles to the
practices of Big Tobacco. Uber is betting big on developing an autonomous fleet
of driverless taxis, but it has also been accused of deceptive claims about its
self-driving program before. Last September, Uber launched a self-driving
demonstration in Pittsburgh that was designed for maximum media attention. It
was supposed to show that the company was making progress in its plan to put a
[Is Uber the next big thing that goes kaput? This guy thinks so]
“Instead, they revealed that autonomous vehicles are still pretty clunky
contraptions and nowhere near-ready for prime time,” Hill said.
Hill, author of “Raw Deal: How the Uber Economy and Runaway Capitalism Are
Screwing American Workers,” said several accounts of the project published by
ride-along journalists generated more skepticism than belief. Some noted that
human drivers had to keep their hands on the steering wheel at all times in
case they had to steer out of trouble when the algorithms went off course.
During one trip, the human overseer had to take command at least 30 percent of
“There were other reported problems, too,” Hill said in a post for Tripping.
“The self-driving cars couldn’t pass on the left, even to move around a truck
blocking the right lane; they couldn’t make right turns at red lights, since
the algorithms can’t edge forward and scan for traffic — which frustrated the
Travis Kalanick, CEO of Uber, delivers a speech in London in 2014. (EPA/WILL
Some self-driving cars moved like snails and still got into scrapes and fender
benders, Hill said. One autonomous vehicle headed down a one-way street.
“What was Uber’s response?” Hill said. “Blame the human drivers.”
Perhaps Uber has to shift the blame, since Kalanick has been quoted as saying
that building an autonomous fleet is of “existential” importance to his
company. Robotic vehicles offer a potential workaround for that most vexing
problem: human drivers, and the need to be paying and constantly recruiting
That may explain why Kalanick’s video cameo was so damning: It seemed to
confirm the low opinion the company is said to have for the proles who drive
[Is Uber reducing drunk driving? New study says no.]
“Drivers get a lot out of Uber, but at the same time, Uber doesn’t treat
drivers with a whole lot of respect,” Campbell said.
Uber has shown signs that it’s taken the criticism to heart — and chin, and
face, and backside. Besides curtailing its use of “Greyball,” the company
announced Tuesday that it was hunting for a chief operating officer to become
But you can bet Kalanick would never give up control or consider parting with
his creation, Campbell said: “It’s over Travis’s dead body. Everything he’s
shown is that he’s a fighter. That’s really the story of Uber.”
A previous version of this report gave an incorrect last name for the founder
of the Rideshare Guy blog and for Susan Fowler. He is Harry Campbell. This
TSA agents will be touching air passengers in ways that would land other people
Metro might sell naming rights to its stations. Any takers?
News and analysis on the deadliest mass shooting in U.S. history.
News and analysis on the deadliest day for police since 9/11.
Fredrick Kunkle runs the Tripping blog, writing about the experience of travel.
Freddy's also covered politics, courts, police, and local government. Before
coming to The Washington Post, he worked for the Star-Ledger and The Bergen
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    United Airlines CEO apologizes for ‘horrific event,’ promises review of
    Rolling Stone settles with former U-Va. dean in defamation case
    Hunting down runaway slaves: The cruel ads of Andrew Jackson and ‘the
    A man wouldn’t leave an overbooked United flight. So he was dragged off,
    United CEO orders review of policies after passenger was dragged screaming
data and research associate, initiative on innovation, development and
staff psychologist (2 positions available), counseling and psychiatric service
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
