FTSE 100 trims gains amid geopolitical risks, as cost of hedging euro
volatility jumps to highest level since Brexit vote
French election posters One-month euro-dollar implied volatility hits highest
level since Brexit vote result on French election nerves Credit: AFP
  • European markets slip as geopolitical tensions weigh 
  • FTSE 100 hits three-week high but pares gains in afternoon trade
  • One-month euro-dollar implied volatility hits highest level since Brexit
Market report: Gold miners rally as geopolitical risks weigh
A flight to safety propelled gold miners to the top of the blue chip index amid
mounting geopolitical tensions in Syria and North Korea.
Investors offloaded risky assets and sought shelter in safe-haven assets such
as gold, lifting the precious metal by as much as 1.6pc to $1,274.18 an ounce
Nerves about the upcoming French presidential election also weighed on risk
    Joshua Mahony, of IG, said: “With the election starting to look like a
    four-horse race, it is no surprise that traders are reacting badly to the
    prospect of a more unpredictable event after a period of heightened
    confidence that Macron will win in the second round.”
In its wake, Randgold Resources leapt 350p, or 4.8pc, to £75.80 and Fresnillo 
jumped 69p to £16.52. Mid-caps Polymetal International climbed 40p to £10.85,
Hochschild advanced 9.7p to 286.7p and Centamin rose 3.3p to 182.9p.
Separately, Fresnillo proposed appointing former British ambassador to Mexico
Dame Judith Macgregor to its board as a new independent non-executive director
The bounce in gold miners lifted the FTSE 100 to a three-week high of 7,406.35,
before trimming its gains to close 16.56 points, or 0.23pc, higher at 7,365.50.
Airlines flew higher on a bullish broker note. Exane BNP Paribas struck a
positive tone and upgraded German airline Lufthansa to “outperform”.
    "We firmly stand by our view that European and global demand will remain
    stubbornly strong, notwithstanding the potential impact of geopolitical
Shares in British Airways owner IAG closed 10.5p higher at 539p and low-cost
carrier easyJet gained 22p to finish at £10.78. However, Exane began covering
Wizz Air with a “neutral” rating raising doubts over its ability to improve
returns amid fierce competition. Shares slipped 16p to £17.21.
Specialist chemicals firm Croda International ticked up 53p to £35.85 after
Barclays raised its price target by £1 to £37, while Rolls Royce added 13.5p to
On the other side, banking stocks came under pressure with RBS skidding 4.5p to
234.5p, Standard Chartered falling 10p to 726.6p and Barclays closing down 1.2p
Away from the blue chips, retailer JD Sports surged to a record high of 440.1p,
up 33.5p on the day, after reporting a 55pc jump in full-year pre-tax profits.
UK construction and support services firm Balfour Beatty also made robust gains
following a rating upgrade by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The US investment
bank hiked its rating to “buy” from “neutral” citing improved confidence in
margin recovery in its key US, UK and Hong Kong markets. Since the arrival of
new management in early 2015, the bank thinks the FTSE 250 firm has
“substantially overhauled its risk management process”.
    Analyst Marcin Wojtal said: “The US construction outlook has improved, and
    while Brexit casts a shadow on the UK, the pipeline of infrastructure
    projects could provide an offset.” Shares rose 15.8p to 286.4p.
Meanwhile, recruiters enjoyed a boost after Robert Walters reported a 20pc rise
in first quarter like-for-like net fee income, marking its fastest quarterly
rise in six years. Shares advanced 18.5p to 450p. Its rival Pagegroup climbed
9.5p to 443.9p and Hays finished 4.8p higher at 162.6p.
Banknote printer De La Rue rallied to its highest level since September 2014
after it predicted full-year operating profits will come in at the top end of
the £66.4m market consensus. Shares leapt 43.5p to 663p.
On Aim, specialist services and engineering group TP nudged up 3.2pc after it
was awarded a contract, which has a potential value of up to £22.5m, with the
Ministry of Defence for the provision of up to eight Combined Oxygen Generating
Finally, Mexican-focused Arian Silver soared 11.8pc upon entering an option
agreement to acquire three lithium exploration projects, while resource group
Bluebird Merchant Ventures climbed 2.9pc after executive director Aidan Bishop
On that note, it's time to close. Thanks for following our markets coverage.
European bourses close lower as geopolitical risks weigh
Heightened concerns about geopolitical risks weighed on European bourses. The
FTSE 100 outperformed its European peers buoyed by a rise in gold miners, which
rallied as investors flocked to safe-haven assets. 
Signs of geopolitical crisis push European markets lower 
Signs of a geopolitical crisis have pushed European bourses lower this
afternoon. However, the FTSE 100 has outperformed its European peers today
despite inflation holding steady at 2.3pc last month. 
The blue chip index is currently trading up 0.2pc at 7,364.71.
    Josahua Mahony, of IG, said: "A failed push to 7400 suggests that the bears
    are gaining the upper hand. Chief amongst today’s winner have been the
    likes of Randgold Resources and Fresnillo, who have understandably
    piggybacked on the sharp appreciation of gold as fears over US military
    "Donald Trump is clearly playing a game of high stakes poker with North
    Korea and China of late, yet the only problem is that he is doing so
    against a hugely unpredictable nation. Trump’s decision to tweet the offer
    of a better trade deal with China in exchange for help placating North
    Korea is remarkable and seems like something that would ordinarily take
    place behind closed doors. Trump says the US is willing to go it alone
    against North Korea, and whilst we are aware that this is mostly a game of
    chicken, the decision to move naval ships into the region could enrage the
    unpredictable Kim Jong Un into an action that could see things escalate
    Trump playing hard and fasat with unpredictable N.Korea. All it takes is NK
    attacking a US position & weve got a (nuclear) war on our hands
Australia warns BHP Billiton shake-up must pass ‘national interest’ test as
Shares in BHP Billiton dipped 8p to £13.08 this afternoon after the Australian
government warned the miner's shake-up must be in Australia's national
A radical shake-up of BHP Billiton must be in Australia’s national interest,
its government has warned, as the battlelines hardened in a row between the
Elliott Advisors, the UK arm of Paul Singer’s activist hedge fund, stunned the
FTSE 100 company yesterday with a demand for it to ditch its current binary
structure in favour of a single Australia-headquartered business, which would
The fund, which owns 4.1pc of BHP’s London shares, also wants the miner to spin
off its large US petroleum business as a separate company in New York, as part
A spokesman for the Australian government warned that any "change in the
corporate structure and listing arrangement would need to be carefully
considered against the provisions of the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers
Fear gauge jumps to highest level since November amid heightened geopolitical
    Fear Index Vix and Volatility on Fear VVix jump to highest since Nov as
    Trump admin navigates geopol minefield. pic.twitter.com/hOrUI59vyD
    — Holger Zschaepitz (@Schuldensuehner) April 11, 2017
After rallying to a three-week high earlier today and breaking the 7,400 level,
the FTSE 100 has turned negative with just 40 minutes of trading to go. 
Banking stocks are among the biggest fallers, while gold miners continue to
rally amid a flight to safety on rising geopolitical concerns in Syria and
The recovery in the pound this afternoon has also weighed on the blue chip
index. The pound is currently trading up 0.35pc on the day at $1.2463, having
hit a session low of $1.2390 following UK inflation data. 
The FTSE 100 is currently down 0.06pc at 7,343.46.
After rising in early afternoon trade, Europe's Stoxx 600 has turned negative,
It comes amid heightened geopolitical risks which have weighed on Wall Street
this afternoon. the Dow Jones extended its losses and is currently off by
0.5pc, while the Nasdaq is nursing losses of 0.9pc. 
Here's our report on eurozone industrial production by Tim Wallace: 
Factories across the eurozone are struggling to turn strong demand and positive
Surveys of the private sector indicate that manufacturers have healthy order
books and plenty of business on their hands, but official figures do not show
Industrial production fell by 0.3pc in February compared with January and is up
by just 1.2pc on the year, according to data agency Eurostat.
January’s data was revised at the same time to show output only rose by 0.3pc
ECB tells UK-based banks to apply as soon as possible for licences 
Cross-border banks in London looking to shift operations to the eurozone after
Brexit should allow at least six months for a new licence, the European Central
The ECB is responsible for authorising banks in the single currency area, with
the help of national regulators for small lenders.
Banks in London fear a "hard" Brexit with no access to the bloc's single market
after 2019, and face pressure from regulators to avoid a "cliff edge" or abrupt
termination in cross-border customer links, which could unsettle markets.
Authorities expect about 40 large international banking groups, currently
operating their euro zone business out of London, to move subsidiaries or
    "It usually takes six months from the applicant providing a complete
    application for a decision to be taken regarding a licence application," an
This could be fast-tracked when an applicant asks for an extension of an
    "In any event, a decision must be taken within 12 months of the date of the
Financial centres Frankfurt, Paris, Madrid, Luxembourg and Dublin are all vying
to attract banks from London, but all major euro zone lenders are directly
supervised by the ECB to stop any national "sweeteners" being offered.
The "relocating to the euro area" guidelines reiterate some comments already
made by ECB officials, such as establishing an "empty shell" in the euro zone
to avoid moving many staff and operations from London would not be acceptable.
    "The requirements for a well-functioning bank must be in place before an
    institution takes up any banking activities in the euro area," the ECB
    "You should plan accordingly, in order to be sure to obtain your license on
It will hold a technical workshop on May 4 to explain its relocation policies
Banks in London have been asking whether they could still centralise their
broker-dealer trading services in London after Brexit to save on costs of
US stocks drift lower at opening bell on geopolitical concerns
Rising geopolitical tensions in Syria and North Korea caused investors to take
shelter in safe-haven assets, resulting in a lower open on Wall Street this
Weak pound helps De La Rue, even as it makes fewer of them
Shares in banknote printer De La Rue hit a two-and-a-half-year high today, up
7.1pc at 663.5p, after it estimated that its full-year operating profit will
come in ahead of the top end of its £66.4m guidance. Rhiannon Bury reports: 
Shares in banknote maker De La Rue are on track to have their best day in
almost a year on the back of a positive update on its trading.
In an update for the year to March 25, the company said revenues were in line
with expectations, and full-year profits would be at the top end of market
consensus when it reports its full results next month.
Shares were up 7.75pc to 667.5p at lunchtime, the firm’s best performance since
The firm has a five-year plan to diversify away from its traditional activities
of currency production and official documents, and towards more
technology-focused services for identification. This could include software for
issuing passports, along with background checks for applicants.
Last year, chief executive Martin Sutherland said the company was on the
lookout for acquisitions that would help it expand to become a “one-stop shop”
French election nerves push up euro one-month implied volatility to highest
The cost of hedging against swings in the euro's value against the US dollar
over the next month has jumped to its highest level since the Brexit vote
One-month euro-dollar implied volatility hit 12.63pc this afternoon. 
Meanwhile, implied volatility against the safe-haven yen over one month rose to
Euro-dollar one-month implied volatility hits highest level since Brexit  
 The first round of voting for the French presidential election takes place on
April 23 and the run-off takes place on May 7. Polls have shown for weeks that
Le Pen and Macron look set to get through round one. 
Investors are nervous about a Le Pen victory as she has promised a referendum
on France's membership of the EU if she wins, which have sparked concerns of an
Two other candidates who held mass rallies over the weekend, Fillon and
Melenchon are making it an increasingly tight race.
Gold rises as  geopolitical tensions prompt flight to safety
Gold prices edged up 0.2pc to $1,257.01 per ounce today as investors sought
safe-haven assets amid heightened geopolitical concerns over Syria, North Korea
    "Geopolitical developments are likely to continue to provide an underlying
    level of support over the short term, however the continued failed breaks
    above the 200-day moving average do not instill confidence in the metal's
    ability to break higher out of the recent range," MKS PAMP Group trader Sam
Lord Lloyd-Webber pockets a handy £2m from his Really Useful Group
Impresario Andrew Lloyd Webber has pocketed a multi-million pound payout from
his Really Useful Group, the company behind his stage shows such as Jesus
Christ Superstar, Phantom of the Opera and School of Rock.
For the year to the end of June 2016, the business reported sales of £38.7m,
edging down 0.4pc on the previous year, but pre-tax profits were 6pc higher at
£5.8m, helped by lower administrative expenses and exceptions, as well as
Lord Lloyd-Webber is behind shows such as School of Rock Credit: PA
Lord-Lloyd-Webber took a £2m dividend, compared with a zero payout the year
He is the sole owner of Really Useful, which he founded in 1977 and runs and
US stocks poised to open flat as geopolitical concerns prompt flight to safety
Wall Street is set for a muted start later this afternoon as geopolitical
tensions in Syria and North Korea prompted a flight to safety. Investors also
remained on the sidelines ahead of first quarter earnings seasons which kicks
    US Opening Calls:#DOW 20650 -0.04%#SPX 2353 -0.15%#NASDAQ 5417 -0.07%#
After popping on UK inflation data and subsequently surrendering its gains, the
pound has gained momentum again and is trading up 0.17pc on the day at $1.2440.
Data released from the ONS earlier showed that UK inflation held steady in
    Ben Edwards, co-manager of the BlackRock Sterling Strategic Bond Fund,
    said:"While some seasonal factors around the timing of Easter may lead to a
    slightly more hawkish reading of the headline number, market reaction will
    likely be tempered when read together with the move lower in core inflation
    to 1.8pc over 12 months vs the 2pc number last month."
Toshiba questions own survival as it warns losses could hit £7bn
Toshiba has warned that it may not be able to continue as a going concern after
the stricken Japanese conglomerate said its annual losses could top 1trn yen
The company has reported a pre-tax loss of 597bn yen in the nine months to
December 31, smashing through its previous February guidance of a 390bn yen
Toshiba, which makes everything from flash memory drives to laptops and
semiconductors, has been brought low by financial woes in its US Westinghouse
    Toshiba says it might not be able to continue as a going concern https://
    — Thomas Biesheuvel (@tbiesheuvel) April 11, 2017
Westinghouse filed for bankruptcy last month, putting the Moorside nuclear
plant in Cumbria in fresh doubt given its key role in the project.
The announcement of the bankruptcy filing prompted the Moorside project’s
partner Engie to announce it would sell its 40pc stake to Toshiba for $138.5m,
leaving the Japanese giant as the sole developer - even though it has vowed to
UK manufacturers rake in extra export cash thanks to weak pound 
Data from the ONS showed that average monthly export revenues rose 16pc in the
past six months compared to the previous year, thanks to the weak pound. Tim
British car manufacturers are benefitting from the weak pound to the tune of
hundreds of millions of pounds per month, as new figures show foreign sales are
generating higher revenues once translated into sterling.
Exports now account for a bigger share of turnover for UK car and trailer
companies, reversing the traditional position in which the domestic market was
Average monthly export revenues in the past six months stood at £3.4bn,
according to the Office for National Statistics, up 16pc on the £2.9bn average
By contrast domestic turnover held steady at £3bn.
This is largely due to the fall in the pound since the Brexit vote last June,
which has pushed up the prices exporters receive for their goods by 9.3pc
compared with February of 2016. Domestic prices are up by a much more modest
Half-time update: European bourses positive in choppy trade
European bourses turned positive by midday in choppy trade as investors
remained on the sidelines due to the shortened week and geopolitical tensions.
     Connor Campbell, of SpreadEx, noted that trading in the region was
    "aided by a pair of better than expected ZEW economic sentiment readings;
    the German figure came in at a 20-month high of 19.5, while the
    Details of (strong) April #ZEW survey: German finance shrugs off #Frexit +
    brings US outlook back to earth. My take: https://t.co/GvtvE5KxtB
Boost in City hiring lifts profits at Robert Walters
Shares in Robert Walters have climbed 2.7pc today after the recruiter reported
a sharp rise in first-quarter profit thanks to a notable increase in hiring
activity in London's financial services industry.  Rhiannon Bury reports: 
More City firms looking for staff helped push fees up 33pc at recruitment firm
The company said that it had seen a “notable upturn” in financial services
recruitment in London in the three months to March 31, as well as more
As a result, UK fees, or gross profits, grew from £18.9m in the previous year
to £23.9m, while overall fees for the company were up 33pc to £78.3m.
There had been fears that recruitment, particularly among banks and financial
services companies, would be put on hold while the UK negotiates its exit from
April is 'historically a strong month' for the FTSE 100 
With the FTSE 100 flirting with 7,400, Chris Beauchamp, of IG, reminds us that
April is "historically a strong month" for the blue chip index. Over the last
20 years, its generated an average return of 1.8pc in April. 
    $FTSE enjoying itself today, don't forget April is historically a strong
    month (ave. return 1.8% over last 20 yrs): pic.twitter.com/HEz0qZ4JLD
Away from UK CPI data, eurozone industrial output fell in February, data from
the EU's statistics office Eurostat showed this morning. 
Industrial production in the 19-country single currency bloc fell by 0.3pc in
February, but rose 1.2pc year-on-year. This was due to a sharp drop of energy
Forecasts pointed to a month-on-month increase of 0.1pc and a 2pc rise from a
    EU Industrial Production pic.twitter.com/MkHMRj63hN
 Meanwhile, January's figures were also revised downwards to 0.3pc
Shares in UK construction and support services firm Balfour Beatty jumped 5.5pc
to 285.5p after Bank of America Merrill Lynch upgraded its rating to "buy" from
"neutral" citing improved confidence in margin recovery in its key US, UK and
After a two-year overhaul that saw it scrap 2015 dividend, cancel buyback,
reorganize pensions to stem string of profit warnings, the company's March
    Analyst Marcin Wojtal said: "Since the arrival of new management in early
    2015, the group has taken £124m out of its costs base and substantially
    overhauled its risk management process. The US construction outlook has
    improved, and while Brexit casts a shadow on the UK, the pipeline of
    infrastructureprojects could provide an offset." 
FTSE 100 hits three-week high in mid-morning trade
The FTSE 100 hit a three-week high in mid-morning trade, outperforming its
European peers, meanwhile the mid-cap index also set a new record peak.
The blue chip index is currently trading up 0.5pc at 7,384.90. 
    Chris Beauchamp, of IG, said: "A lacklustre US session and some weak
    performances overnight in Asia have done little to reassure investors,
    however, and there is a sense that, with two back-to-back shortened weeks,
    and the key earnings season now days away, the market will struggle to
    "Usually, holidays and low volumes tend to favour the buyers, but unlike
    Thanksgiving and Christmas there appears to be little basis for an ‘Easter
    Bunny rally’, if such a thing could ever exist." 
UK inflation holds steady at three-and-a-half year high as cheaper air fares
Here's our full report on UK inflation from Szu Ping Chan: 
Inflation remained at a three-and-a-half year high last month, as cheaper air
fares and falling petrol costs helped to offset a rise in food and clothing
Prices, as measured by the consumer prices index (CPI), rose by 2.3pc in the
This was in line with economists' expectations and follows four consecutive
months of rising inflation. It is also the joint highest rate since September
The Office for National Statistics (ONS) said the late timing of the Easter
holidays this year - which fall in April, compared with March last year, pushed
down the cost of air fares compared with a year ago.
A drop in petrol prices between February and March also exerted downward
Pound quickly reverses gains; trades down on the day
Well that was short lived! After rising by as much as 0.22pc to $1.2446 against
the US dollar following an initial dip in the wake of the UK inflation data,
Inflation steady - but the price of crisp sandwiches is rising
Laith Khalaf, Senior Analyst, Hargreaves Lansdown points out that although
inflation may be steady, it’s still currently outpacing wages and interest
rates, which spells trouble for households and cash savers.
He flags that in March, food inflation really took off, which suggests the
supermarkets are now starting to pass rising import costs onto consumers.
    "Crisps and margarine saw particularly steep price rises, not good news for
Khalaf also pointed to transport costs, which are also significantly higher
than they were a year ago, driven by higher fuel prices.
    He added: "However lower air fares are helping keep a lid on rising
    transport costs overall, thanks to a fierce price war in the European
    budget airline industry. The later timing of Easter this year is also a
    factor, which may mean inflationary pressures from this sector are stored
    UK #inflation: Slowdown in transport price growth largely a base effect of
    March 2016 reading. Food, drinks & drugs contribution growing
CPI inflation held steady at 2.3pc in March, matching the consensus. Core
inflation fell to 1.8pc in March from 2pc in February, slightly below the
    Samuel Tombs, of Pantheon Macroeconomics, said: "CPI inflation didn’t rise
    further in March only because the Easter holidays—when transport prices
    spike—were in late March last year but are in April this year. Indeed,
    airline fares inflation plunged to -22.8pc in March, from -1.3pc in
    February, reducing its contribution to CPI inflation by 0.2pp.
    "We continue to think that CPI inflation will climb to about 3.5pc by the
    end of this year, thereby peaking earlier and higher than the MPC expects.
    Further upside inflation surprises might persuade more members on the MPC
    Higher food & core goods prices offset the temp. drag on inflation from
    Easter-affected airfares in March. Inflation still set to ↑ further:
 Suren Thiru, Head of Economics at the British Chambers of Commerce (BCC), 
reckons the continued elevation in costs at the factory gate suggests that
consumer prices are likely to resume their upward trend in the coming months.
    “Businesses say they are facing an uphill struggle to absorb the increasing
    cost of imports – a task made more difficult by the raft of additional
    upfront costs imposed on businesses at the start of the new tax year. As a
    result, the rising price of imported raw materials are expected to
    increasingly filter through into higher prices, stifling consumer spending,
    “It is probable that rising inflation helped weaken UK GDP growth in the
    first quarter of 2017, with growth likely to have slowed to 0.4pc, from
    0.7pc in the previous quarter. The UK’s growth prospects are expected to
    remain subdued over the near term, as higher inflation continues to squeeze
    “Against this backdrop, it is vital that government does more to ease the
    cost pressures facing firms by tackling the burden of upfront costs and
    taxes associated with doing business in the UK. The MPC must also continue
    to ‘look through’ the expected rises in inflation and opt for an extended
    period of monetary stability. This will help businesses to continue to
    invest, recruit and support the wider economy.”
    #UK inflation stays at 2.3% YoY. With wage growth set to slow tomorrow,
    disposible incomes are coming under pressure$GBP #BoE pic.twitter.com/
    — ING Economics (@ING_Economics) April 11, 2017
Maike Currie, investment director for personal investing at Fidelity
International, says we should expect a further lift in inflation in April when
    Currie added: “Rising inflation also has implications for savers, investors
    and retirees as it erodes the spending power of future interest and
    dividend payments and eats away at the worth of your original capital." 
ONS: UK house prices increase 5.8pc in the 12 months to February
Average house prices in the UK have increased by 5.8pc in the year to February
That compares with an increase of 5.3pc in January.  However, this still
remains below the average annual house price growth seen in 2016 of 7.3pc.
    5.8% rise in #houseprices in the year to February, with the average UK
    house price standing at £218,000 https://t.co/XTB9bubqJ1
The average UK house price was £218,000 in February 2017. This is £12,000
higher than in February 2016 and £2,000 higher than last month.
Annual house price rates of change, UK all dwellings from January 2006 to
    CPI at 2.3% but the more important factor of the consumer slow down is
    tomorrow's wage numbers; uneven triangle of pay, spending and credit
    After muted response at first, we are seeing GBPUSD waking up after robust
    inflation readings #CPI pic.twitter.com/ayeGmVqA4a
    March headline CPIH unchanged at 2.3%, but shape of inflation has shifted.
    Increases driven by food will hit lower income families hardest
    — Matt Whittaker (@MattWhittakerRF) April 11, 2017
    All the headlines about UK inflation focus on sterling, but the main pass
    through from sterling to #inflation is yet to arrive. pic.twitter.com/
    — Rupert Seggins (@Rupert_Seggins) April 11, 2017
Food prices rose in March reflecting higher global food prices
Data from the ONS also shows that food prices have been increasing in the UK
and across the EU, reflecting higher global food prices.
    ONS Deputy National Statistician Jonathan Athow said:
    “Food, drink and clothing prices all rose in March. However, this is offset
    by air fares, which fell slightly but last year rose substantially thanks
    “The costs of raw materials and the price of manufactured goods leaving
    factories were both little changed, as falling fuel prices helped stem
    “While house prices and rental costs rose over the year, the rates of
    Global food price rises driving up consumer inflation across Europe https:/
Pound spikes after UK inflation holds stead in March
The pound, which initially dipped lower after the UK inflation data, has hit an
intraday high of $1.2446 against the US dollar, rising from around $1.2405
UK inflation: Timing of Easter holidays pushed down airfares
Although UK inflation was unchanged at 2.3pc in March, a large downward effect
came from transport, particularly from air fares and to a lesser extend
The ONS said that the timing of Easter in March last year contributed to air
fares rising by 22.9pc on the month whereas this year, Easter is in April and
there was no price rise. Between February and March this year fares fell by
Meanwhile, prices of motor fuels also fell between February and March this year
reflecting falls in global oil prices whereas prices rose a year ago. Petrol
fell by 1.0 pence per litre this year but rose by 0.9 pence per litre a year
ago. Similarly diesel fell by 1.1 pence per litre this year but rose by 2.0
Here are the key charts from the ONS data release which showed inflation
Figure 1: This compares the  12-month inflation rates for CPIH and the Consumer
Prices Index (CPI), along with the rate for the owner occupiers’ housing costs
(OOH) component of CPIH. Given that OOH accounts for around 17pc of CPIH, it is
the main driver for differences between the CPIH and CPI inflation rates.
CPIH, OOH component and CPI 12-month rates for the last 10 years- March 2007 to
CPIH, OOH component and CPI 12-month rates for the last 10 years- March 2007 to
 Figure 2: This shows that price movements for all the broad categories of
goods and services had an upward effect on the Consumer Prices Index including
owner occupiers’ housing costs (CPIH) 12-month rate in March 2017. This is the
first time since June 2014 that all categories made a positive contribution.
The largest upward effect in March came from housing and household services,
largely from rises in owner occupiers’ housing costs. This was followed by the
contribution from rising transport prices, which is largely due to increasing
Contributions to the CPIH 12-month rate- March 2016 and March 2017
Contributions to the CPIH 12-month rate- March 2016 and March 2017 Credit: ONS
Figure 3: This shows how each of the main groups of goods and services impacted
on the change in the 12-month rate between February and March 2017. Many groups
had an upward effect on the rate but these were offset by falling transport
 Contributions to change in the CPIH 12-month rate- March 2017 Credit: ONS
UK  inflation held steady in March due to the later timing of this year's
Easter holidays. With Easter falling in April this year, inflation is likely to
Here are the key points from the ONS data release: 
 1. The Consumer Prices Index including owner occupiers’ housing costs (CPIH,
    not a National Statistic) 12-month inflation rate was 2.3pc in March 2017,
 2. The rate has been steadily increasing following a period of relatively low
 3. Rising prices for food, alcohol and tobacco, clothing and footwear,
    miscellaneous goods and services were the main upward contributors to
 4. These were largely offset by a downward contribution from transport,
    particularly air fares and, to a lesser extent, motor fuels.
 5. The Consumer Prices Index (CPI) 12-month rate was also 2.3pc in March 2017,
Breaking: UK inflation holds steady at 2.3pc in March
UK  inflation held steady in March due to the later timing of this year's
Easter holidays which pushed down airfares, and a dip in global oil prices, but
the squeeze on households looks set to resume soon.
    2.3% rise CPIH in the year to March, unchanged from last month https://t.co
Consumer prices increased in March by 2.3pc compared with a year earlier, the
Office for National Statistics said today, in line with expectations. 
The consensus for the UK CPI year-on-year reading is to remain steady at
Anthony Cheung, of Amplify Trading, points out in his morning briefing that
last month expectations were for a reading of 2.1pc. 
    He adds: "We exceeded expectations and seeing a 0.2pc beat for CPI is
Mr Cheung flags that last month's inflation reading marked the highest level
since September 2013 and is 0.3 percentage points above the Bank of England's
He also said that the CPI data will be "the most influential number for the
Despite heightened geopolitical concerns, Europe's Stoxx 600 has reversed its
It is now trading 0.06pc higher at 381.48. The CAC 40 in Paris has also turned
The pound came under pressure this morning as investors eyed coming inflation
data that could revive bets on eventually tighter Bank of England policy.
Numbers due for release at 9.30am  are expected to show consumer prices
increased 1.9pc in March compared with the same month last year, a slight
Ahead of this morning's UK inflation data, here's what the experts have to
Henry Croft, of Accendo Markets, says the annual CPI reading is expected to
    "Given sterling’s strong performance over the month, a cooler March would
    confirm BoE Governor Mark Carney and colleagues’ view that recent inflation
    upticks were caused by weakness in the pound, and may help aid the dovish
Simon French, of Panmure Gordon, also expects CPI flat at 2.3pc. 
    "There remains little evidence of this spreading to core inflation or
    market-based measures for inflation expectations. As such we continue to
    expect the Bank of England to look through the current spike in UK prices
    and maintain superaccommodative monetary policy. Bank policymakers have
    responded to concerns over recent increases in unsecured lending by using
    its macroprudential toolkit rather than signal a forthcoming increase in
    UK #inflation: Market-based measures of 5y inflation expectations remain
    around 2%. Survey measures near 3% - but only back to 2014 levels
Jeremy Cook, of World First, says expectations range from a dip to 2.0pc on the
    "We have long talked about consumers pulling in their horns in response to
    higher prices and the PMIs from the UK’s manufacturing, construction and
    services sectors last week suggested that trend was ongoing.
    "Later this morning we will see just how squeezed people are getting by
    prices before the latest round of wage numbers due at the same time
    The Devil's in the Retail for GBP - World First Morning Update April 11th -
    https://t.co/HulU4Yotlc pic.twitter.com/ycTjGS2f3C
JD Sports rejects 'prison' warehouse claims as profits soar more than 80pc
JD Sports is trading at a lifetime high this morning, up 5pc at 426.7p, after
reporting a 55pc rise in full-year headline pre-tax profit. It has also
rejected 'prison' warehouse claims. Sam Dean has the details: 
Profits soared by more than 80pc at JD Sports as the sport and fashion retailer
rejected claims that its warehouse conditions were “worse than prison”.
Channel 4 reported last year that workers at the Kingsway site in Rochdale were
subject to a “three strikes” policy under which they could be fired for chewing
JD Sports has now said the allegations “did not represent a balanced
characterisation of working practices” at the facility.
    “The board appointed Deloitte to conduct an independent review of the
    allegations made,” the company said. “That review has now been completed
    and Deloitte's conclusion was that the allegations did not represent a
    balanced characterisation of working practices at Kingsway.”
European shares drop amid rising geopolitical tensions
Rising geopolitical tensions, a drop in banks and technology stocks are all
weighing on European shares this morning. The FTSE 100 is the only exception,
    Andy McLevey, of Interactive Investor, said: "Cautious investors are
    heading for the sidelines amid geopolitical uncertainty in the Middle East,
    the Korean Peninsula and the upcoming French election all contributing to
    dampen sentiment and risk appetite ahead of the long weekend break for the
South Korean stocks and won fall to 4-week lows on North Korea escalation fears
South Korean shares and the won weakened to about four-week lows on Tuesday on
worries that North Korea could conduct another missile or nuclear test within
days, even as a US Navy strike group steamed toward the area.
South Korea's acting President Hwang Kyo-ahn warned of the risk of "greater
provocations" by the North and ordered the military to intensify monitoring
The Korea Composite Stock Price Index closed down 0.4pc at 2,123.85 points, the
The won fell 0.3pc at 1,145.8 to the dollar at the conclusion of onshore trade
compared to Monday's close of 1,142.2. It was the lowest closing level since
Offshore investors have been net sellers for seven straight session, offloading
Agenda: Investors eye UK price inflation and eurozone industrial production
 Good morning and welcome to our live markets coverage. 
Last night, Wall Street ended choppy session little changed, while overnight
Asian stocks fell as geopolitical tensions weighed. 
Investors are nervous about the possibility of US military action against North
Meanwhile, in France, polls for many weeks have been showing centrist Emmanuel
Macron and far-right leader Marine Le Pen on track to top the first round of
voting on April 23 and go through to a May 7 runoff.
    Good morning from Berlin. Asia stocks fell, Bonds & Yen rise as risk-off
    takes hold. Tighter French vote added to pol tensions on N. Korea.
    — Holger Zschaepitz (@Schuldensuehner) April 11, 2017
Looking ahead to today's economic data, releases include German economic
sentiment, UK price inflation and Eurozone industrial production. 
    Previewing the UK price inflation data, Connor Campbell, of SpreadEx, said:
    "In February the figure smashed forecasts, surging half a percent in the
    space of a month to hit 2.3pc. That news gave sterling a serious boost,
    putting cable on track to graze $1.26 by the end of March. This time around
    the CPI reading is forecast to slip slightly to 2.2pc; if accurate, it will
    be interesting to see how the pound reacts to inflation solidifying, rather
    than building on, its current highs. Of course, since the referendum last
    June analysts have tended to underestimate the strength of inflation’s
    growth, the figure outperforming expectations, often significantly, in 6 of
Full-year results: Vedanta Resources, JD Sports Fashion
Economics: PPI input m/m (UK), CPI y/y (UK), RPI y/y (UK), PPI output m/m (UK),
HPI y/y (UK), NFIB small business index (US), federal budget balance (US), TIC
long-term purchases (US), final CPI m/m (GER), industrial production m/m (EU)
    $CAC 5099 down 8$IBEX 10406 down 32$MIB 20145 down 57
If you would like to add a comment, please register or log in
    From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in history
    Gallery: From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in
    Gallery: Public relations nightmares: is United Airlines' removal of a
    Gallery: All the major high street brands that have collapsed since the
    Akzo Nobel has come under increasing pressure from shareholders
    AkzoNobel reports shareholder Elliott to financial authorities following
    Pound hits 12-day high against euro after UK jobs report but wage growth
    Thanks for the advice, but no thanks: BHP Billiton dismisses 'flawed'
    UK unemployment down again but pay growth stalls
    Spoof books boost WH Smith as travel business continues to outweigh high
    From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in history
    Gallery: From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in
    Panmure Gordon boss to leave following Bob Diamond takeover 
    United Airlines shares hit turbulence as passenger backlash grows
    Tesco is hoping to win over shareholders with its rise in profits and sales
    Tesco unveils first UK sales growth for seven years
    Gallery: Public relations nightmares: is United Airlines' removal of a
    Questor: buy JD Sports for its unique relationships with the major sports
    Cyber attacks knock millions off FTSE share prices
    Comment: The UK can continue to be a world leader in fintech
    Fred Goodwin in court as 'misleading' RBS faces wrath of shareholders
    Comment: Barclays must once again prove it can save itself 
    Comment: JD Sports leaves Sports Direct in the shade
    Technology and the internet risk fuelling a surge in migration and
    Barclays investors warn 'entirely possible' regulators will force out boss
    Soaring Trump dollar risks global trade war and China currency crisis,
    Britain's essential role in global aerospace may come under pressure from
    Openreach aims to accelerate broadband upgrades in talks with BT rivals
We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you
can continue to access our quality content in the future.
