Man pouring coffee 'If you can trust a colleague to run the cafe and find a
friendly relative to care for your children, take advantage,' suggests John
Q I run a small cafe with my partner and we find it very difficult to spend
time together outside of work. We also have two young children, who take up all
We only talk about the business during the small windows of free time that we
A You have a hazy view of your priorities, so please let me help.
Fifteen years from now, you will, hopefully, have two well-adjusted children
and an even stronger marriage. These are aspirations that are almost entirely
in your own hands. I'm sure that you also imagine an exciting future for the
business, with the cafe getting much busier and, perhaps, leading to a chain of
many more. This sort of business success needs lots more luck and can be
I feel that your family comes first. You probably think that you need a
successful business to support your growing family, but in my experience, it
can work the other way round, which is why I think that your number one
priority is your home and children. The business comes an important, but
Join the community | Share your small business story
Together you have two major projects: the cafe and your family.
Be clear who’s the chief executive at home and who’s the top dog at work. I get
the impression that you’re a great team who enjoy working together.
It’s a difficult juggling act. Whenever I meet people in your position, I'm
amazed at the energy they have, with the ability to fit 25 hours into a day.
I’ve never had your kind of dilemma. My late wife Alex never worked in our
business, apart from a bizarre spell as a shop assistant just before we got
married. She became a full-time mother, but, when she became a foster carer,
her job was busier than mine. We were lucky – every year, we were able to have
at least one holiday together, without any children. I can now see that those
If you can trust a colleague to run the cafe and find a friend or friendly
relative to care for your children, take advantage with a clear conscience.
It’s an important thing to do for your marriage, your children and the
Q Staff keep nicking stationery to help with their kid’s homework and other
personal needs. Is there any common sense way I can police this? I'm generally
relaxed about it, but don't want it to become an expensive problem, or create
A If this is your biggest worry, you must have an amazingly trouble-free
business. Instead of installing hidden cameras and carrying out a weekly stock
take of the stationery cupboard, encourage your colleagues to pick up plenty of
paper and biros, which might inspire their kids to spend a bit of worthwhile
To make the point, set up a “help yourself” table, full of your giveaways.
Everything on the table is free to take home (such as the shampoo, conditioner
and mouthwash in a hotel bedroom), but everything else (the bathrobe, for
This generous gesture should be appreciated by your colleagues, who in turn
will respect where to draw the line. But a word of warning: some accountants
and tax inspectors may turn into Scrooge by looking at the possible
About 20 years ago, I abandoned a popular video movie exchange library at our
office, because someone insisted on charging tax of £5 a film, to reflect the
benefit every time that a video was borrowed from the library.
Don't worry about the extra cost of paper; the notepads taken home will, almost
certainly, be put to a better use than those used for doodling around the
By chance, you've actually found a perk that benefits your colleagues' kids.
Instead of trying to stop this petty pilfering, encourage it; it makes a lot of
business sense to do things that benefit your employees’ families.
John Timpson is chairman of the high-street services provider, Timpson. Send
    Male hipster sitting in workshop looking off camera
    Join the community today for free business advice and support
    Victoria Brocklesby, co-founder, Origin Doors and Windows
    ‘As you get bigger, the company culture can creak’
    What now for SMEs after triggering Article 50?
    Bought By Many’s co-founder on launching an insurance start-up
    Three tips for turning a business idea into a reality
    Small business minister: Small firms deserve to be paid on time
    When and how should you define the values of a business?
    'A family business should never hide behind an acronym'
    Victoria Brocklesby, co-founder, Origin Doors and Windows
    ‘As you get bigger, the company culture can creak’
    What now for SMEs after triggering Article 50?
    Bought By Many’s co-founder on launching an insurance start-up
    Three tips for turning a business idea into a reality
    Small business minister: Small firms deserve to be paid on time
    When and how should you define the values of a business?
    'A family business should never hide behind an acronym'
    How to tackle annoying office habits at a small business
    Omar Fayed: Environmental impact as important as the bottom line
    Evoke Creative's Dean Ward (right) and Neil Clark
    How constant innovation helps this tech company stay ahead
    What it's really like to start a business at 50 plus
    People holding mobile phones in front of the Twitter logo
    Low-cost ways to add colour and productivity to your workplace
    Three considerations for trading internationally
    My business blogging tips – make it fun and about people, not stats
    Gymbox founder: ‘We set out to be a rebel brand’
Join the community today for free business advice and support
If you would like to add a comment, please register or log in
We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you
can continue to access our quality content in the future.
