FTSE 250 closes at fresh record high and oil climbs on strong demand and
oil Oil prices rose supported by strong demand and uncertainty over the
  • Barclays board reprimands boss Jes Staley as City watchdogs launch probe
  • Why is Barclays in trouble with the Bank of England again and what happens
  • European bourses struggle for direction in early trade
  • Pound edges above $1.24 against US dollar in choppy trade
  • Oil prices rise on strong demand and uncertainty over Syria conflict
  • Hong Kong stocks barely move as investors weigh geopolitical worries 
Market report: Mediclinic enjoys best day in four months on rating upgrade
A rating upgrade injected a shot of vitality into the performance of hospital
operator Mediclinic, marking its best day in four months.
Investec became the fifth broker to issue a “buy” rating on the stock, lifting
its rating from “hold”, as it believes Mediclinic’s Middle East business will
It comes a week after investment bank Macquarie downgraded the FTSE 100 stock
to “neutral” citing a tough business environment in Abu Dhabi.
However, Investec estimates that Al Noor, an Abu-Dhabi hospital provider it
acquired a year ago, will “roughly break even”. The broker also shares
management’s belief that the combined Middle East operations can achieve
margins similar to that in South Africa over the longer term.
Since the South African private healthcare provider warned on profits in
February, shares have tumbled by almost 13pc. The recent rand weakness has also
    Analyst  Marcelle Jankelow said: “We believe the recent decline in share
    price now presents a buying opportunity for sterling investors.”
 Separately, Mediclinic also enjoyed a boost after the Zurich Cantonal
Parliament voted not to approve a proposed levy on privately insured patients
Shares jumped 25p, or 3.6pc, to 724.5p. Its peer NMC Health also gained ground,
Meanwhile, a rating upgrade from Numis lifted Hikma 62p higher to £19.46.
AstraZeneca missed out on sector-wide gains after Jefferies downgraded its
rating to “hold” as it finds the level of uncertainty over its pivotal MYSTIC
lung cancer study is “too high” against the current stock price. Shares dipped
On the wider market, the FTSE 100 ended the day relatively flat, down 0.43
points, or 0.01pc, to 7,348.94 as gold miners weighed on the index, while the
mid-cap index set a new closing high of 19,264.60.
Fresnillo lost 41p to £15.83 and Randgold Resources fell 180p to £72.80 after
gold prices came off five-month highs as the US dollar strengthened. Mid-cap
Hochschild surrendered 10.4p to 277p, Polymetal International slipped 19p to
Separately, Centamin also reported a 13pc fall in first quarter gold
Elsewhere, house builder Taylor Wimpey bounced 3.5p to 198p on a price target
upgrade. Credit Suisse lifted its price target from 157p to 182p as it believes
the fundamentals of the UK housing market remain “attractive”. It also thinks
the FTSE 100 firm is in “good shape” both financially and operationally.
Mining giant BHP Billiton jumped by as much as 5.7pc in intraday trade after
hedge fund Elliott Advisors urged for a restructure, proposing a London Stock
Exchange de-listing and a demerger of its oil business. However, the FTSE 100
stock retreated in afternoon trade, closing up 28.5p, or 2.2pc, at £13.16 after
it said the costs and associated risks of Elliott's proposal would
Away from the blue chips, property company Shaftesbury climbed 30.5p to 949p
amid deal chatter. The Sunday Times reported that Hong Kong-based billionaire
Samuel Tak Lee, who already holds an 18pc stake in the business, is interested
Tullow Oil climbed 12.9p to 238.9p buoyed a rise in Brent crude prices, which
was supported by another shutdown at Libya’s largest oilfield Sharara and
heightened tension over Syria following Friday's US missile strike.
Aim-listed television production firm Zinc Media leapt 11.6pc after it was
commissioned by Channel 4 to produce a new series ‘Village of the Year’, while
palm oil producer DekelOil jumped 5.9pc on record quarterly production figures.
With that, it's time to close for today. I'll be back again tomorrow from
Even though it was a very quiet trading session, the FTSE 250 index managed to
set a new record closing high of 19,264.60, finishing 0.2pc higher on the day. 
European bourses struggled for direction today due to a sparse economics
    Chris Beauchamp, of IG, said: "The first day of the shortened week has
    passed without incident, although a degree of hesitation prevails before a
    speech by Janet Yellen this evening. Indeed, the main story of the day is
    that there hasn’t really been a story at all. There has been some weakness
    in European and UK markets, but in the US stocks are managing to tiptoe
    "Investors are undoubtedly hoping that Ms Yellen’s speech tonight will
    throw some more light on the mention of balance sheet changes in last
    week’s Fed minutes, since this is perhaps the biggest risk to the ongoing
    rally in equity markets. Weakness in gold and silver has seen Fresnillo and
    Randgold Resources slump to the bottom of the FTSE 100, while  Tesco is
    enjoying a good day ahead of full-year numbers on Wednesday that should
    provide more information on how the Booker acquisition will unfold."
Shares in Carillion nudged 0.3pc higher to 219.4p on the back of a contract
Facilities management and construction company Carillion said this morning that
one of its joint venture has won a £200m contract to manage catering, hotel and
mess services across 87 defence sites across Kent, Sussex, Surrey, Berkshire
The contract was awarded as part of the Defence Infrastructure Organisation’s
Project Hestia initiative, which is consolidating 80 existing contracts for
services such as food and leisure into seven new regional ones in a bid to save
money. The DIO manages the Ministry of Defence's facilities. Carillion will
employ 1,800 staff to carry out the work, which will begin in September for
Connor Campbell, of SpreadEx, weighs in on a very quiet, and possibly
    "Today has been one of the more forgettable trading days in a while; things
    should pick up, however on Tuesday and Wednesday. The former sees the
    latest UK inflation figure, which has gradually become one of, if not the,
    biggest mover of the pound since the referendum last summer. Having hit
    2.3pc in February, March’s reading is set to slip back to 2.2pc, something
    "That’s followed on Wednesday by the UK jobs report. Last month saw
    inflation outstrip wage growth, so investors are going to be keen to see if
    there has been any further widening of the gap between two of the more
Leading shareholders aim to oust chairman of ailing Hornby
Shares in toymaker Hornby have edged up 0.8pc after it received a request from
a leading shareholder to call a meeting seeking removal of chairman Roger
Leading shareholders in model train and Scalextric maker Hornby have demanded a
general meeting to oust the company's chairman after years of "disastrous"
The formal request was made by Alexander Anton, a smaller shareholder who was
asked to look into the company by the second largest shareholder in the
They said that current strategy was "ineffective", adding that "shareholders
have lost enormous value" with "disastrous" losses of £31m in the five years
since Roger Canham was made chairman, and shares under performing the AIM index
A showdown could follow, as the biggest shareholder in Hornby is Phoenix Asset
Management, the chairman of which is also Mr Canham, which owns 34pc of the
Kuwait expects higher OPEC and non-OPEC compliance in March
 Kuwait oil minister Essam al-Marzouq expects OPEC and non-OPEC compliance last
month with the global supply cut pact to be higher than the past couple of
months, state news agency KUNA reported him as saying on Monday.
Marzouq said compliance with the cuts by all oil producers in January was
He also said he sees "positive indicators" in the gradual decline of the global
oil inventories, expecting it to continue, which would reflect positively on
Muted start on Wall Street as earnings season in focus
US stocks were broadly flat at the opening bell on Wall Street as investors
remained cautious ahead of a raft of first quarter earnings later this week. 
    US earnings season getting into it's swing this week, with banks on Thurs.
    However, the next three weeks will see 80% of S&P 500 report
Gold slips from five-month high on dollar strength
Gold slipped back from five-month highs this afternoon as the dollar
strengthened counterbalancing concerns over political tensions in North Korea
The dollar neared a three-week high as the euro came under pressure from
worries over a tightening race for the French presidency. 
The precious metal dipped 0.3pc to $1,249.41 an ounce, down from $1,270, which
it hit on Friday after weaker than expected US jobs data.
UK economy gaining momentum as global recovery takes hold 
The UK economy is gaining momentum as a global recovery takes hold, according
Britain’s economy shows signs of picking up the pace as the UK joins in a
global recovery, reversing fears of a slowdown last year around the Brexit
Rising exports and strong demand from households have been highlighted as
crucial factors driving the UK forwards, and now the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development believes there are “tentative signs of growth
gaining momentum, although uncertainty related to Brexit remains.”
Analysts at the OECD look at measures including business orders, corporate
confidence and stock market moves to try to anticipate moves in the economy in
Britain’s score on the composite leading indicators (CLI) index climbed to 99.8
in February, the OECD said, up from 99.6 in January and the seventh consecutive
The score declined through the first half of 2016 around the Brexit vote, but
its improvement since August shows that the economy is improving. The OECD's
reading is not quite back up to the long-term average of 100, but appears to be
US stocks set to open flat as investors await Q1 earnings
US stocks are poised to open flat this afternoon as investors remain cautious
Fed chair Janet Yellen is also scheduled to speak in Michigan after markets
close. Investors will be looking to clues on the central bank's plans to trim
its $4.5 trillion balance sheet after recent from the Fed's March minutes. 
    US Opening Calls:#DOW 20672 +0.06%#SPX 2358 +0.12%#NASDAQ 5425 +0.12%#
Oil rose towards $56 a-barrel this afternoon buoyed by another shutdown at
Libya's largest oil field and heightened tension over Syria following Friday's
Brent crude rose by 1.19pc changing hands at $55.90 a-barrel. 
Challenger bank Redwood secures banking licence and £30m council investment
A challenger bank set up famous property developer David "Spotty" Rowland and
his son Jonathan has secured a banking licence and a £30m investment from a
local council, becoming the latest lender to attempt to take market share from
Redwood Bank, which is focused on small and medium-sized enterprises in the UK,
plans to open to customers later this year after receiving approval from City
watchdog the Financial Conduct Authority and the Bank of England’s Prudential
Millionaire investor David Rowland founded Redwood
Millionaire investor David Rowland founded Redwood
The award of the banking licence came as Warrington Borough Council took a 33pc
stake in the holding company that owns the lender, which is controlled by the
Hertfordshire-based Redwood now plans to open an office in the area and
Warrington councillor Russ Bowden described the shareholding in the bank is “an
BHP Billiton eases off highs as miner pushes back on Elliott's proposal
Shares in BHP Billiton have eased back in afternoon trade after the mining
giant pushed back on Elliott Advisors' proposals. 
The FTSE 100 stock, which jumped by as much as 5.7pc, was trading at £13.28, up
3.2pc this afternoon following a statement from BHP. 
In a letter, hedge fund Elliott urged BHP to restructure the business,
proposing a London Stock Exchange de-listing, a demerger of its oil business
BHP said it has had dialogue with Elliott "over many months" and that it
    "Those reviews have included the key elements of Elliott's proposal," the
However, it concluded that the costs and associated risks of Elliott's proposal
would "significantly outweigh any potential benefits". 
    BHP added: "The Board of BHP Billiton will consider further its detailed
    response to the proposal and will make a further announcement in due
Half-time update: European bourses slide into negative territory
After a slow start to the day, European bourses have dipped into negative
territory, despite strong gains in miners and pharma stocks. 
     Connor Campbell, of SpreadEx, said: "After pushing towards 7350 the FTSE
    fell back by 10 points as the morning progressed, in part thanks to 0.9pc
    losses seen by BP and Shell. The commodity giants seem to be giving up some
    of the growth they posted last Friday, when Trump’s Syria airstrikes
    sparked an oil rally on hopes that production would be disrupted; Brent
    Crude itself has actually remained higher, however, climbing another 1pc to
Labour's Mann on Staley: 'If true, Staley has to resign'
John Mann, Labour MP and member of the Treasury Select Committee, has tweeted
that chief executive Jes Staley "has to resign" if it is true that he attempted
    If true, Stayley has to resign https://t.co/0cuYP4kThE
    This is today's big financial scandal. Huge implications. Bank minutes of
    2008 need re-examining as part of a major fraud investigation. https://t.co
Why is Barclays in trouble with the Bank of England again and what happens
Here's a useful explainer by our banking correspondent Ben Martin on why
Barclays is in trouble with the Bank of England again: 
    At issue are chief executive Jes Staley’s attempts to learn the identity of
    a whistleblower. The bank has revealed that in June 2016 board members
    received an anonymous letter and a senior executive also received a second
    anonymous letter “raising concerns about a senior employee who had been
    The FCA and PRA have launched a joint investigation into Mr Staley,
    Barclays and its “systems and controls and culture relating to
    whistleblowing”. This probe could lead to Barclays being fined and being
    Mr Staley could also be fined and receive a public censure by the
    authorities. In the worst case he could be banned from working in the City,
 3. What are other regulatory and legal problems does Barclays face?
    The FCA and PRA probes into the whistleblowing controversy add to a long
    list of issues facing the bank, which like other lenders has been hit was a
    range of fines for misconduct in recent years, including a £290m penalty in
    2012 for attempting to manipulate Libor, a scandal that led to the
    resignation of then-boss Bob Diamond. It currently faces a lawsuit from the
    US Department of Justice (DoJ) over claims it mis-sold toxic
    mortgage-backed securities that contributed to the financial crisis, after
    it failed - unlike other banks - to reach a settlement with the DoJ last
    The revelations are damaging to the bank at a time when Mr Staley appeared
    to be making progress at the firm. Earlier this year, the lender posted a
    near trebling of annual pre-tax profits to £3.23bn from £1.15bn in 2015
    after it paid out less to settle litigation and to the victims of the
    payment protection insurance mis-selling scandal. Mr Staley also said he
    would be closing Barclays’ non-core division at the end of June, six months
    ahead of schedule and signalling his turnaround was taking hold faster than
Calls for Government investigation after Bank of England drawn into widening
Politicians are calling for a Government probe following reports that the Bank
of England may have been involved in Libor manipulation.
The BBC's Panorama programme claims to have uncovered a 2008 recording between
a senior Barclays manager and its Libor submitter that suggests the Bank was
exerting pressure on lenders to low-ball the rate.
    Mark Dearlove, a senior manager at Barclays, reportedly told the submitter
    that he needed to lower his Libor rate, saying: "The bottom line is you're
    going to absolutely hate this ... but we've had some very serious pressure
    from the UK government and the Bank of England about pushing our Libors
Libor - the London Interbank Offered Rate - is the rate at which banks lend to
each other, and is used to set millions of pounds worth of financial deals
It is also used in complex overseas financial transactions.
Geopolitics and Yellen in focus ahead of US trading session
Investors over in the US are in the mood to claw back their losses and put the
past behind them as the US strike on Syria created a lot of jitteriness in the
market, Naeem Aslam, of Think Markets, said, as investors turn their attention
    He added: "Investors are less interested in building their position in the
    safe haven trade. However, this trade may start to fade soon. We are not
    completely out of these turbulent water. The geopolitical risk is still
    very much on trader's radar and this could change everything because the US
    military sent an aircraft carrier near the Korean Peninsula on Friday.
    Moreover, it will be naive to ignore the political drama taking place in
    Europe and geopolitical risk in the Middle East.
    "North Korea labelled the US strikes as "reckless move for a war". In
    response to North Korea's recent multiple missile test, the US wants to
    keep the pressure on North Korea which keeps investors a little fragile as
    a risk of full-blown war cannot be ignored.  Another event that has
    tremendous importance among investors on Friday was the US NFP which came
    in much weaker than the expectations. The weak headline number was still
    unable to renew the appetite among investors for a flight to the safe
    haven. The dollar index is still relatively strong (in comparison to
    previous sessions). The Fed member, James Bullard has also upped a notch by
    saying that now is the time for the US to seriously start thinking of
    shrinking their balance sheet. An event which itself has an ability to
    derail the markets from their current upward path in the light of weak
SEB: US strikes in Syria do not really 'stand out much' in linear oil price
Although oil enjoyed an additional boost from the US strikes in Syria last
Friday, Bjarne Schieldrop, chief commodities analyst at SEB, thinks the Syrian
event does not really "stand much out in the almost linear price recovery which
has followed the recent sell-off that bottomed out on 22 March".
    He added: "We cannot really say that the market price wise places too much
    emphasis on the Syrian event other than the intraday spike last Friday. It
    is however clear that the developments in Syria should be factored in as an
    additional risk premium in the oil price going forward especially now that
    oil inventories are drawing down and the market is no longer in massive
Oil extends gains above $55 a-barrel on Libyan field shutdown 
Oil extended its gains in mid-morning trade above $55 a-barre on the back of a
another shutdown at Libya's Sharara oilfield and heightened tension over Syria
Libya's Sharara oilfield was shut on Sunday after a group blocked a pipeline
linking it to an oil terminal, a Libyan oil source said. The field had only
just returned to production, after a week-long stoppage ending in early April. 
Oil extended its gains above $55 a-barrel in mid-morning trade Credit: Reuters
    "High, unscheduled production outages are still giving (oil prices) a
Mining giant BHP Billiton is on track for its best day since November last year
after hedge fund manager Elliott Advisors sent a letter to the group proposing
a London Stock Exchange de-listing, a demerger of its oil business and
Elliot also proposed listing BHP's US petroleum business on the New York Stock
    In the letter, it said: "Management should avoid making badly timed
    acquisitions for cash and instead return its substantial upcoming excess
Weighing in on the calls for a restructure, broker Investec saidElliot has
provided "a sensible set of suggestions – certainly the start of some agitation
Shares jump by more than 5pc to  £13.52 this morning. 
Hong Kong stocks barely move as investors weigh geopolitical worries
In overnight trading, Hong Kong stocks were little changed as investors
remained on the sidelines amid concerns about growing political risks over
By close of play, the benchmark Hang Seng index was almost flat at 24,262.18
and the Hong Kong China Enterprises Index lost 0.2pc to finish at 10,253.79.
    Good morning from Berlin. Asia mkts mixed, Dollar shines as geopol risks
    grow. Stocks exposed to potential conflict in N Korea underperform.
    — Holger Zschaepitz (@Schuldensuehner) April 10, 2017
President Donald Trump pressed Chinese President Xi Jinping to do more to curb
North Korea's nuclear program and help reduce the gaping US trade deficit with
Beijing in talks on Friday, even as he toned down the strident anti-China
Barclays case also under scrutiny by Department of Financial Services, New York
 Back to Barclays, not only are UK regulators investigating both Staley’s
individual conduct relating to the complaint and the bank’s responsibilities
and controls in connection with whistleblowing, according to Bloomberg the case
is also under scrutiny by the Department of Financial Services in New York. 
    Why has Jes Staley been reprimanded for wanting the name of a
    whistle-blower? As CEO of Barclays I would want to know material news!
Barclays' shares, which fell by as much as 0.7pc in early trade following the
announcement,  have turned positive and are trading up 0.4pc at 216.1p.
    Why did Barclays CEO Jes Staley receive a reprimand and pay cut? https://
    t.co/h5yGXlg1ts@ElisaMartinuzzi explains: pic.twitter.com/RwKRtXjXgj
After dipping in early trade, the pound has nudged up 0.12pc to trade at
$1.2401 against the US dollar following reports that the Bank of England
pressured some banks to reduce Libor rates in 2008. 
    Kathleen Brooks, of City Index, said: "Investors may be looking ahead to
    the long weekend, but there is still important economic data to watch out
    for this week. Inflation data in the UK and China, and PPI in the US, is
    due out in the next couple of days. A stronger than expected reading from
    the UK could trigger sterling upside if it manages to lift UK bond yields.
    "The yield spread between UK and US yields remains stubbornly low, but did
    manage to recover at the end of last week on the back of the very weak US
    payrolls report. Sterling’s recovery this morning may be a delayed reaction
    to this and if the yield spread recovers highs."
Business customers make up half of Travelodge clients as hotel chain bounces
Business customers now make up more than half of sales at low-cost hotel chain
Travelodge, helping the business outpace its competitors.
The company said it was the first time since its financial restructuring in
2012 that business travellers had represented such a strong proportion of sales
and this contributed to the 2.5pc rise in revenue per available room - a key
industry performance metric - to £39.34, compared with a 1.4pc rise by its main
Travelodge noted the growth rate in the UK hotel market was slower than the
prior year with a weaker London market offset by better performance in the
This pushed the level of occupancy in its hotels down slightly to 76.1pc from
76.6pc in 2015 but the average price it charges for its rooms rose 3.1pc to
£51.70. This was thanks to the aforementioned business customers and the fact
its overhauled website is leading to a larger number of customers booking a
Oil prices rise on strong demand, uncertainty over Syria conflict
Oil prices rose on Monday, supported by strong demand and uncertainty over the
conflict in Syria, although another run-up in U.S. drilling activity kept a lid
Brent crude futures, the international benchmark for oil prices, were at $55.49
per barrel this morning, up 25 cents, or 0.45pc, from their last close.
US West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures CLc1 were up 25 cents, or
ANZ bank said that strong oil demand and "an unsettled global backdrop (is)
However, another increase in US oil drilling - for the 12th straight week and
taking the count to 672 rigs, which is the highest since August 2015 - kept
markets from breaking last week's one-month highs of over $56 per barrel. 
US bank Goldman Sachs said after the rig data release that year-on-year US oil
production "would rise by 215,000 barrels per day in 2017" once a backlog of
production waiting to be brought back online was taken into account.
The soaring US output contrasts with a supply cut led by the Organization of
the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), which hopes to prop up prices by
reducing supplies in the first half of 2017 - and maybe beyond. 
    "The US rig count continues to soar and we are close to a two-year high on
    that. Judging by the relative success of the OPEC agreement keeping prices
    propped up, I don't see a reason for that to decline in the near future,"
    said Matt Stanley, a fuel broker at Freight Services International (FIS) in
    "Reduced OPEC volumes and stronger US output will result in a deeper
    discount for US crude and support greater exports from the U.S. to Asia
    over the coming months," BMI Research said. It added, though, that in terms
    of overall volumes, "the US will remain a small player in Asia as OPEC
European bourses struggled for direction in early trade. Miners and healthcare
stocks made gains, while gold miners and banks came under pressure. 
    Henry Croft, of Accendo Markets, said: "Calls for a positive open come as
    investors follow an overnight lead from Asian markets and dial back
    reactionary safe-haven bets to Friday’s US airstrikes in Syria and a
    disappointing Non-Farm Payrolls print. This suggests bullish appetite is
    alive and well following the conclusion of a seemingly successful two-day
    Sino-US summit and ahead of key UK, US and Chinese inflation prints this
    week. Despite safe-haven flight, geopolitical risk remains at the fore with
    regional tensions rising in Syria and the Korean peninsula, with a US navy
    "FTSE sentiment is likely to be impacted by the US dollar trading at a
    3-week high and Commodities holding around recent highs, while the
    announcement of probes by the Financial Conduct Authority and the Bank of
    England’s Prudential Regulation Authority into Barclays CEO Jes
Shore Capital on Barclays: Latest revelation represents a very significant
As regulators investigate Barclays chief executive Jes Staley over a
whistleblowing case, Gary Greenwood, of Shore Capital, said the latest
revelation represents" a very significant embarrassment for the Board as it
    He added: "As for Mr Staley, it remains to be seen whether the PRA and FCA
    come to the same conclusion as the Board in allowing him to remain in his
    post, although we would assume that the sanctions proposed will have
    already been discussed with the regulators and should therefore help to
    mitigate this risk. It is possible the Group may also be fined."
    Question for Barclays that hasn't been answered - why was the CEO trying to
    — Simon Neville (@SimonNeville) April 10, 2017
Operationally, Shore Capital believes that Barclays has made "excellent
progress under the stewardship of Jes Staley, notably in respect of running off
non-core assets and rebuilding the capital base". 
    Mr Greenwood said: "To remove Mr Staley from his role at this juncture
    would be damaging to further operational progress, with an improvement in
    return on equity now the key area of focus.  While Mr Staley’s reputation
    has undoubtedly taken a serious knock, we believe that it remains in the
    best interests of shareholders to keep him in the post of CEO and hence we
    recommend that they follow the Board’s direction and vote in favour of his
The broker thinks any short-term negative impact on the share price from
today's announcement could be seen as a potential buying opportunity. 
Staley: My personal actions in this matter were errors on my part
Barclays Jes Staley has apologised to the bank as regulators look into an
attempt made by him last year to identify the author of a letter that was
treated by the bank as a whistleblowing incident. 
    In a statement, Staley said: "I have apologised to the Barclays Board, and
    accepted its conclusion that my personal actions in this matter were errors
    on my part. I will also accept whatever sanction it deems appropriate.
    "I will cooperate fully with the Financial Conduct Authority and the
    Prudential Regulatory Authority, which are now both examining this
    matter. Our whistleblowing process is one of the most important means by
    which we protect our culture and values at Barclays and I certainly want to
    ensure that all colleagues, and others who may utilise it, understand the
Jes Staley, chief executive officer of Barclays Credit: Bloomberg
Barclays board reprimands boss Jes Staley as City watchdogs launch probe over
Shares in Barclays have fallen 0.7pc this morning after it revealed the FCA and
PRA are investigating boss Jes Staley and the bank itself over a whistleblowing
Barclays Bank has issued a formal reprimand to its chief executive Jes Staley
and docked his bonus after he broke the lender's internal rules on
The bank also revealed that the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential
Regulation Authority have opened an investigation after Mr Staley attempted to
identify the author of a letter that was written by a whistleblower in 2016.
The matter was subsequently referred to Barclays board, which instructed a
private law firm to investigate and notified both City watchdogs.
Barclays' investigation concluded that "Mr Staley honestly, but mistakenly,
believed that it was permissible to identify the author of the letter".
Good morning and welcome to our live markets blog. 
The week starts off with a relatively quiet economic calendar today. Banks are
in focus this morning. The FCA and PRA are investigating Barclays chief
executive Jes Staley and the bank itself over a whistleblowing incident. 
Meanwhile, a secret recording that implicates the Bank of England in Libor
    Quiet economic calendar today, but that can be great for technical
    analysts. Less to get in the way of your trading.
Elsewhere, oil prices are rising this morning supported by strong demand and
Economics: RICS house price balance (UK), BRC retail sales monitor y/y (UK),
labor market conditions index m/m (US), Sentix investor confidence (EU)
If you would like to add a comment, please register or log in
    From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in history
    Gallery: From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in
    Gallery: Public relations nightmares: is United Airlines' removal of a
    Gallery: All the major high street brands that have collapsed since the
    Akzo Nobel has come under increasing pressure from shareholders
    AkzoNobel reports shareholder Elliott to financial authorities following
    Pound hits 12-day high against euro after UK jobs report but wage growth
    Thanks for the advice, but no thanks: BHP Billiton dismisses 'flawed'
    UK unemployment down again but pay growth stalls
    Spoof books boost WH Smith as travel business continues to outweigh high
    From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in history
    Gallery: From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in
    Panmure Gordon boss to leave following Bob Diamond takeover 
    United Airlines shares hit turbulence as passenger backlash grows
    Tesco is hoping to win over shareholders with its rise in profits and sales
    Tesco unveils first UK sales growth for seven years
    Gallery: Public relations nightmares: is United Airlines' removal of a
    Questor: buy JD Sports for its unique relationships with the major sports
    Cyber attacks knock millions off FTSE share prices
    Comment: The UK can continue to be a world leader in fintech
    Fred Goodwin in court as 'misleading' RBS faces wrath of shareholders
    Comment: Barclays must once again prove it can save itself 
    Comment: JD Sports leaves Sports Direct in the shade
    Technology and the internet risk fuelling a surge in migration and
    Barclays investors warn 'entirely possible' regulators will force out boss
    Soaring Trump dollar risks global trade war and China currency crisis,
    Britain's essential role in global aerospace may come under pressure from
    Openreach aims to accelerate broadband upgrades in talks with BT rivals
We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you
can continue to access our quality content in the future.
