United Airlines shares hit turbulence as passenger backlash grows
plane United Airlines' parent company suffered a bump ride on the stock market
Shares in United Airlines' parent company suffered a bumpy ride on Tuesday as
the worldwide backlash over its forcible removal of a passenger continued.
United Continental closed down 1.1pc at $70.71 (£56.61), after falling as much
as 4.4pc earlier. The company shed as much as $1bn in market value before
ending the day with a loss of about $250m. More than 16 million United shares
changed hands, the most for any session in a year.
Doctor removed from overbooked flight Doctor removed from overbooked flight
United has faced enormous pressure after video went viral of a passenger being
dragged from his seat on a plane on Sunday to make room for four employees on
Lawyers for the passenger, Dr David Dao, issued a statement late on Tuesday
confirming his identity and saying that he and his family were "focused only on
Dr Dao's medical care and treatment" in a Chicago hospital.
The US Department of Transportation launched an inquiry into the incident, and
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie called for new rules to curb the airline
United CEO Oscar Munoz issued a statement on Tuesday apologising to Dr Dao
without naming him. "I'm sorry. We will fix this," Mr Munoz said. "I deeply
apologise to the customer forcibly removed and to all the customers aboard. No
On Monday, Mr Munoz issued a memo to employees defending the company but not
Mr Munoz, a former railroad executive who took over the helm at United in 2015,
had already been under pressure from activist investors to improve the
airline's performance, including its customer relations.
People protest against a passenger being forcibly removed from a United
Airlines flight at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago 
Video showing Dr Dao being yanked from his seat by airport security Sunday
evening and dragged from United Airlines Flight 3411 at Chicago O'Hare
International Airport sparked global outrage on social media.
An online petition calling for Mr Munoz to step down had nearly 22,000
On Chinese social media, the incident attracted the attention of more than 480
million users on Weibo, China's Twitter-like platform.
United has about 20pc of total US-China airline traffic and has a partnership
with Air China, the country's third-largest airline, according to analysts. It
flies to more Chinese cities than any other US carrier. Last year, United added
non-stop flights from San Francisco to Hangzhou, its fifth destination in
Dr Dao, before being dragged off the parked plane, said repeatedly that he was
being discriminated against because he was Chinese, according to Tyler Bridges,
a fellow passenger on the flight from Chicago to Louisville, Kentucky.
"He said, 'I'm a doctor; I need to see patients,'" said Mr Bridges, a civil
engineer from Louisville who recorded much of the incident on his phone.
United is also suffering from broader worries among investors about US airline
In the United States, social media outrage continued, with the incident
trending on Twitter for the second consecutive day. Many users promoted
hashtags #NewUnitedAirlinesMotto and #BoycottUnitedAirlines.
This is the second time in less than a month that United has been caught in a
social media storm. In late March, a United gate agent's decision to refuse to
board two teenage girls wearing leggings provoked a viral backlash.
If you would like to add a comment, please register or log in
    From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in history
    Gallery: From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in
    Gallery: Public relations nightmares: is United Airlines' removal of a
    Gallery: All the major high street brands that have collapsed since the
    Akzo Nobel has come under increasing pressure from shareholders
    AkzoNobel reports shareholder Elliott to financial authorities following
    Pound hits 12-day high against euro after UK jobs report but wage growth
    Thanks for the advice, but no thanks: BHP Billiton dismisses 'flawed'
    UK unemployment down again but pay growth stalls
    Spoof books boost WH Smith as travel business continues to outweigh high
    From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in history
    Gallery: From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in
    Panmure Gordon boss to leave following Bob Diamond takeover 
    Tesco is hoping to win over shareholders with its rise in profits and sales
    Tesco unveils first UK sales growth for seven years
    Gallery: Public relations nightmares: is United Airlines' removal of a
    Questor: buy JD Sports for its unique relationships with the major sports
    Cyber attacks knock millions off FTSE share prices
    Comment: The UK can continue to be a world leader in fintech
    Fred Goodwin in court as 'misleading' RBS faces wrath of shareholders
    Comment: Barclays must once again prove it can save itself 
    Comment: JD Sports leaves Sports Direct in the shade
    Technology and the internet risk fuelling a surge in migration and
    Barclays investors warn 'entirely possible' regulators will force out boss
    Soaring Trump dollar risks global trade war and China currency crisis,
    Britain's essential role in global aerospace may come under pressure from
    Openreach aims to accelerate broadband upgrades in talks with BT rivals
    Offices of the FCA, Financial Conduct Authority at Canary Wharf, London
    UK watchdog sets out advice rules to protect young savers and elderly
We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you
can continue to access our quality content in the future.
