Flight to safety of gold after US missile strikes but FTSE 100 ends in positive
Investors nervous at what the US strikes on Syria could mean caused a flight to
Randgold Resources was the biggest beneficiary of Donald Trump’s decision to
launch military action, with its shares shooting to the top of the FTSE 100
leaderboard, rising 4.3pc to £74.10 as they sought security in the precious
metal, itself 1.1pc higher at $1,266 an ounce as the London market shut.
Mid-cap gold miners Centamin and Polymetal also got a push, adding 3.1pc to
Back among the blue-chips Fresnillo, the world’s largest producer of silver,
Other stocks on the rise following the missile strikes included defence group
BAE Systems, gaining 2.4pc to 649p, and mid-cap peers Cobham, 3.1pc higher at
141.6p in a rare boost for the struggling business, and Meggitt, 0.8pc better
Energy companies Royal Dutch Shell and BP, both climbed, adding 1.7pc and 1.3pc
Oil prices spiked 2pc in early trading as traders reacted to news of the
military action and the possibility of a squeeze on supplies. However, oil
could not hold on to the gain as a weak US jobs report dented confidence in the
On the other side of equation were the airlines, who traditionally take a hit
when shooting starts. EasyJet was the worst performer in the FTSE 100, diving
1.6pc to £10.43, though some of the decline was a reaction to the previous
day’s news that March passenger numbers were up more than 10pc on a year ago.
British Airways parent IAG retreated 0.4pc 523.5p.
Despite negative sentiment at the start of the day, the FTSE 100 ended the day
in positive territory, 0.63pc higher at 7349.37, with the FTSE 250 0.54pc
There were some stand-out performances from supermarkets after UBS took a look
at some of the sector’s main players. The broker upped its target price on
Sainsbury’s by 30p to 360p with a prediction it would post surprise
like-for-like growth this year. Also in focus was Morrisons, saying that after
five quarters of growth is was now “fairly” priced, but increased its target
HSBC also took a look at Tesco ahead of next week’s results, saying the
retailing giant was “underestimated by investors. This has not mattered too
much to Tesco until recently, but with the proposed merger with Booker it must
convince Booker shareholders that swapping shares in the cash-generative Booker
for shares in Tesco, whose recovery is still unproven, is a good deal”. Still,
the broker held its target at 260p and “buy” rating. Sainsbury’s rose 2.9pc to
261.8p, Tesco put on 2.4pc to 189.7p and Morrisons was 1.5pc better at 234.2p.
However, feeling the wrath of UBS was Ocado, the troubled online grocer.
Analyst Daniel Ekstein’s note warned that “the market is moving against Ocado”,
with penetration rates beginning to plateau, making it tough for the FTSE 250
business to hit City pundits forecasts, as its relatively weak purchasing power
“suggests it will struggle to maintain gross margin and price competitiveness”.
He cut his rating from “buy” to “sell” and more than halved the price target to
Investors took flight and Ocado was the mid-cap markets biggest faller, off
The European Commission has given the green light to Rupert Murdoch's
Twenty-First Century Fox to acquire Sky for £11.7bn.
The EU anti-trust watchdog has given unconditional approval to the deal, saying
the transaction would raise no competition concerns in Europe.
In the statement, the organisation said: "The Commission found that the
proposed transaction would lead to only a limited increase in Sky's existing
share of the markets for the acquisition of TV content as well as in the market
for the wholesale supply of TV channels in the relevant Member States."
    U.S. stocks are wobbling Friday morning as the combination of a weak jobs
    report and U.S. missile strikes against Syria have investors on edge.
    Investors are buying bonds, gold, and high-dividend stocks as they look for
    safe venues to put their money. Bond yields are down, and banks are
    skidding. Defense contractors are trading higher.
The Dow Jones Industrial average opened down 24.69 points, while the Nasdaq was
down 5.57 points and the S&P 500 was down 1.82 points.
Marcus Bullus, trading director at MB Capital, has had this to say about the US
"The March non-farm payrolls number was a phenomenal miss and will add to
market uncertainty following the Syria missile strikes.
"Very few traders saw this one coming. It was little surprise the Dollar went
into a nosedive in the immediate aftermath of the announcement.
"The weakest print for a decade could leave equities with a bloodied nose, at
US President Donald Trump Credit: AP Photo/Evan Vucci
"The upshot of this very poor number could be a more dovish and cautious Fed.
"Next month's print will be decisive in determining whether this is a blip or
the beginning of a broader slowdown. You suspect, and hope, the former.
"The 38,000 downward revision for January and February makes the headline
That's the view of Paul Ashworth, the chief US economist at Capital Economics.
"The disappointing 98,000 increase in non-farm payrolls in March will be seized
upon by the usual suspects as confirmation that the US economy is poised for
collapse, but the truth is this is mostly just weather-related noise," he said.
"After the unseasonably warm January and February, which pushed monthly job
gains back above 200,000, there was always going to be some pay back in March,
when the weather snapped back to seasonal norms, including some heavy
"Admittedly, we were expecting a 190,000 gain, but we did identify the weather
    U.S. employers added just 98,000 jobs last month, the fewest in a year,
    though the unemployment rate fell to a nearly seven-year low of 4.5
    The rate fell because nearly a half-million more Americans reported finding
    Economists had expected a falloff in hiring in March after job gains in
    January and February had averaged a robust 237,000. Those increases had
    been fueled partly by strong hiring in construction, which occurred because
Here's Hargreaves Lansdown analyst Nicholas Hyett on the day so far:
"It’s a mixed day for the miners, bookending the FTSE 100.
"Market jitters following US air strikes on Syria, and heated exchanges between
the US and Russia, have pushed some investors towards safe havens such as
gold, up 1% today. That’s good news for the gold specialists, with Randgold 
Rio Tinto's Port Dampier operations in Western Australia
Rio Tinto's Port Dampier operations in Western Australia Credit: AFP/Getty
"Miners focused on industrial metals are faring less well, with Rio
Tinto falling 1.8%. That reflects a fall in iron ore prices, sparked by a
combination of investors moving away from risker assets and Australian
government research suggesting that prices will fall throughout 2017 as Chinese
Shakil Begg, head of oil research at Thomson Reuters, has warned that the surge
in oil may overlook a couple of important factors.
The US missile strike against Syria has pushed oil prices to a four-week high
But Mr Begg told The Telegraph: "Research indicates actual crude shipments from
Opec remain steady with exports for both February and March near levels since
"Meanwhile, the US reported another build up in crude stocks this past week."
Here's Reuters on the impact on oil prices of Donald Trump's missile strike on
    Oil prices hovered near one-month highs though prices pared some gains as
    Brent crude futures which surged more than 2 percent after the U.S. attack
    were last up 1.5 percent at $55.72 a barrel. U.S. West Texas Intermediate
    The strength in crude oil lifted shares on major oil and gas producers in
    European with BP, Royal Dutch Shell and Total all up about 0.5 percent.
    Warm weather hit the energy industry in February and bigger imports of
    erratic goods such as oil and commodities pushed up the UK’s trade deficit.
    Production output - which covers sectors including manufacturing, mining
    and utilities - fell by 0.7pc compared with January, while the trade
    Construction also slowed down on weaker infrastructure spending.
    But economists are confident that manufacturing and trade are both on a
    positive trajectory despite one month of poor data.
    Excluding erratic goods from the trade figures, the gap between imports and
    exports narrowed to £2.5bn, down from £3bn in January, as imports dipped
Construction also slowed down Credit: Andrew Matthews/PA Wire
    And on a three-monthly basis manufacturing output grew by 2.1pc,
    maintaining the strongest growth spurt seen since 2010.
    “February’s data on industrial production and construction supported other
    evidence that the economy has lost a little momentum in the first quarter.
    But growth is likely to have remained fairly solid,” said Ruth Gregory at
    In terms of exports “ the general trend over the past few months seems to
    “With the benefits of exchange rate depreciations tending to come after a
    bit of a lag, we remain optimistic that UK exporters will perform well as
The pound has fallen against the dollar following the publication of those ONS
industrial and construction figures showing a February shrink.
It fell 0.3pc instantly, and is down 0.43pc since 9.30am against the dollar.
Against the Euro, the pound is down 0.3pc to 1.1681 euros.
Lloyds to pay £100m to victims of HBOS Reading fraud
Lloyds Banking Group has revealed it will take a £100m hit paying compensation
to victims of the HBOS Reading bribery scandal, as the City watchdog restarted
its probe into what bosses at the lender knew about the scam, writes Ben Martin
The bank has already written off about £250m of fraudulent loans made in the
scandal, which in February saw six people, including two former HBOS employees,
being jailed for a combined 47 years and six months.
Lloyds rescued HBOS in 2009 at the height of the financial crisis
Lloyds rescued HBOS in 2009 at the height of the financial crisis Credit:  PA
It now expects to spend a further £100m reimbursing customers who suffered
“economic losses, distress and inconvenience” because of the fraud at HBOS’s
Reading office in the years before the financial crisis.
After its early fall, the FTSE 100 has recovered and levelled off. The same
cannot be said for European bourses, though, with Euro Stoxx 50, CAC 40 and the
Russian assets led emerging stocks and currencies lower on Friday, Reuters
reports, after the US missile strike in Syria spooked investors.
MSCI's benchmark emerging equities index was down 0.2pc, mirroring a broad
sell-off in riskier assets after the United States fired 59 cruise missiles at
a Syrian air base from which it said a deadly chemical weapons attack was
How Trump's Tomohawk strike in Syria unfolded How Trump's Tomohawk strike in
The rouble was down around 1pc against the dollar and Russian
dollar-denominated stocks fell 2.4pc. The currency was also undermined by
comments from the Russian economy minister suggesting the rouble could weaken
"The current price action makes sense," said ING chief EMEA FX and rates
strategist Petr Krpata. "The geopolitics in the region is not positive for the
currency so what we see is a knee-jerk reaction. But unless these things are
followed up and there is a further escalation, they do not usually last."
ONS figures also show a decline in the UK's construction industry in February.
Output was down 1.7pc compared to January, with a 2.6pc drop in new housing
    Brexit could lead to a new era of free trade and globalisation in finance,
    enriching Britain and the wider world - but if negotiations go wrong, it
    could also cut off international finance and do huge harm to the economy,
    The UK stands "at a fork in the road", the Bank of England's Governor said
    in his first speech since Article 50 was triggered, and must take the "high
    It also emerged that Sam Woods, head of the Bank's Prudential Regulation
    Authority, has written to all banks and finance firms with cross-border
    activities between the UK and other EU nations to tell them to put in place
    contingency plans in case the Brexit negotiations fail to reach any
The UK's industrial output in February fell 0.7pc from January, new figures
The drop was a result of unexpectedly warm weather, the ONS said, which
Separate figures showed that the UK's deficit in goods and services hit a
Here's a take from Reuters on some of this morning's changes:
    The U.S. dollar recouped all of its losses against a basket of major
    currencies and was last trading little changed. S&P 500 futures were down
    European stocks fell 0.3 percent weighed down by weakness in mining stocks
    as investors locked in some profits following the sector's stellar run this
House prices are increasing at less than half the rate seen a year ago - at
least according to a closely watched index by Halifax that is out today.
Property values lifted by 3.8pc year-on-year in March, compared with a 10pc
increase recorded in March 2016, Halifax said. That’s the weakest annual
Samuel Tombs, chief UK economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, said: “"It's now
incontrovertible that the housing market has slowed sharply this year."
    Flat #UK #house prices in Mar reported by #Halifax reinforces our belief
    prices will rise no more than 2.5% over 2017 as #consumers struggle
    — Howard Archer (@HowardArcherUK) April 7, 2017
Here's Accendo Markets analysts Mike van Dulken and Henry Croft:
    "Gold has traded at its highest level since the US election overnight as
    Syrian geopolitical concerns see investors flocking towards traditional
    "Alongside the Japanese Yen and US Treasuries, the yellow metal rallied to
    a fresh 5-month high of $1269 on account of the airstrikes.
    "Although price has cooled somewhat from its 3am highs, note the possible
    emergence of a bullish flag pattern to $1280."
The Co-operative Bank, which was put up for sale in February, has received
offers from several potential buyers as the troubled lender continues attempts
The bank said on Friday that it has received a number of "non-binding
proposals" from strategic and financial parties, adding that it has selected
"several" of them to enter the next stage of the sale process, during which
they will be provided with additional information.
Read the Telegraph’s Group Business Editor James Quinn on why the potential
winding up of the Co-op Bank doesn’t necessarily mean the end of the Co-op
    Those who feared US-Russian collusion will now have to fear their
Oil prices hit their highest level in a month after the missile strikes against
The price of Brent crude rose to more than $56 a barrel after the attack,
although it later eased back to $55.75, a rise of 1.57pc.
There will be concerns that oil production and shipments could be affected if
the conflict in the Middle East is ramped up, although this morning’s strikes
    #Oil & #gold leading gains this morning as #Trump orders Syria missile
The FTSE 100 opened lower this morning following the overnight news that Donald
The London market was down 0.17pc at 7,290.55 before recovering to 7,312.48 at
Elsewhere in Europe, the STOXX 600 index was down 0.3 with a 1pc drop for basic
Hello, and welcome to our live markets coverage on a day set to be dominated by
reaction to US President Donald Trump's decision to launch missile strikes
You can stay up to date with that developing story on our live blog here, while
this page will have all the market reaction to the missile strikes, and its
If you would like to add a comment, please register or log in
    From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in history
    Gallery: From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in
    Gallery: Public relations nightmares: is United Airlines' removal of a
    Gallery: All the major high street brands that have collapsed since the
    Akzo Nobel has come under increasing pressure from shareholders
    AkzoNobel reports shareholder Elliott to financial authorities following
    Pound hits 12-day high against euro after UK jobs report but wage growth
    Thanks for the advice, but no thanks: BHP Billiton dismisses 'flawed'
    UK unemployment down again but pay growth stalls
    Spoof books boost WH Smith as travel business continues to outweigh high
    From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in history
    Gallery: From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in
    Panmure Gordon boss to leave following Bob Diamond takeover 
    United Airlines shares hit turbulence as passenger backlash grows
    Tesco is hoping to win over shareholders with its rise in profits and sales
    Tesco unveils first UK sales growth for seven years
    Gallery: Public relations nightmares: is United Airlines' removal of a
    Questor: buy JD Sports for its unique relationships with the major sports
    Cyber attacks knock millions off FTSE share prices
    Comment: The UK can continue to be a world leader in fintech
    Fred Goodwin in court as 'misleading' RBS faces wrath of shareholders
    Comment: Barclays must once again prove it can save itself 
    Comment: JD Sports leaves Sports Direct in the shade
    Technology and the internet risk fuelling a surge in migration and
    Barclays investors warn 'entirely possible' regulators will force out boss
    Soaring Trump dollar risks global trade war and China currency crisis,
    Britain's essential role in global aerospace may come under pressure from
    Openreach aims to accelerate broadband upgrades in talks with BT rivals
We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you
can continue to access our quality content in the future.
