JD Sports JD Sports will publish its full-year results this week Credit: REX
The city will be hoping for signs of progress on Empiric Student Property’s
search for a new chief financial officer after Michael Enright resigned last
month for personal reasons, when it unveils its interim results. Although the
student accommodation owner appointed Nigel Turner as interim finance chief, it
said it was looking for a permanent replacement.  
At the end of March, the London-listed group also acquired Revcap’s 50pc in its
flagship Willowbank site in Glasgow. It now owns 100pc of the interest in the
Economics: RICS house price balance (UK), BRC retail sales monitor y/y (UK),
labor market conditions index m/m (US), Sentix investor confidence (EU)
British sportswear retailer JD Sports Fashion is expected to publish
forecast-beating full-year results, buoyed by strong growth in store sales.
Consensus market expectations point to full-year expectations of £200m for the
12 months ended January 28, a 15pc increase year-on-year. It reported  a 73pc
jump in half-year profits to a record £77.4m. Jonathan Pritchard, of Peel Hunt,
said: “Forecast momentum persists and the absolute level of profit progress
JD Sports has exploited the growing demand for sports branded shoes and clothes
to overtake rival Sports Direct as the Britain’s biggest sportswear retailer by
market value. It is also in talks about a potential tie-up with Sport Zone in
Spain and Portugal, which it announced last month.  
Full-year results: Vedanta Resources, JD Sports Fashion
Economics: PPI input m/m (UK), CPI y/y (UK), RPI y/y (UK), PPI output m/m (UK),
HPI y/y (UK), NFIB small business index (US), federal budget balance (US), TIC
long-term purchases (US), final CPI m/m (GER), industrial production m/m (EU)
Tesco’s results need to “impress” to keep its merger with Booker on track. That
was the message from the City ahead of the retailer’s full-year results.
Bernstein said phase III of chief executive Dave Lewis’s recovery plan is
expected. The broker believes it will be about innovation and growth. “The
Booker deal fits in perfectly with that,” said analyst Bruno Monteyne. In
recent weeks, Tesco has said it remained committed to its agreed £3.7bn
Investors will also be keen to ensure the grocer’s recovery is on track, with
operating profit of £430m forecast in the second half of the year. Recent
industry data from Kantar Worldpanel showed that Tesco’s sales were down 0.4pc
Trading update: Dunelm Group, PageGroup, Low & Bonar, WS Atkins, Countryside
Economics: Unemployment rate (UK), average earnings index 3m/y (UK), claimant
All eyes will be on recruitment firm Hays’ outlook when it publishes its latest
trading update as investors attempt to gauge if Brexit negotiations will weigh
on the UK market. In February, the recruiter reported a 28pc fall in half-year
operating profits in its UK and Ireland division. At the time, broker Numis
said: “We believe the risks to the outlook posed by the UK are likely to remain
Investors should also pay attention to its operations outside the UK. In the
first six months of the financial year, Hays enjoyed a “significant”
acceleration in activity in Australia and posted net fees growth in Germany,
Economics: BOE credit conditions survey (UK), CB leading index m/m (UK), PPI m/
Economics: CPI m/m (US), retail sales m/m (US), business inventories m/m (US),
preliminary UoM inflation expectations (US), preliminary UoM consumer sentiment
If you would like to add a comment, please register or log in
    From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in history
    Gallery: From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in
    Gallery: Public relations nightmares: is United Airlines' removal of a
    Gallery: All the major high street brands that have collapsed since the
    Akzo Nobel has come under increasing pressure from shareholders
    AkzoNobel reports shareholder Elliott to financial authorities following
    Pound hits 12-day high against euro after UK jobs report but wage growth
    Thanks for the advice, but no thanks: BHP Billiton dismisses 'flawed'
    UK unemployment down again but pay growth stalls
    Spoof books boost WH Smith as travel business continues to outweigh high
    From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in history
    Gallery: From Lehman Brothers to Chrysler: The biggest bankruptcies in
    Panmure Gordon boss to leave following Bob Diamond takeover 
    United Airlines shares hit turbulence as passenger backlash grows
    Tesco is hoping to win over shareholders with its rise in profits and sales
    Tesco unveils first UK sales growth for seven years
    Gallery: Public relations nightmares: is United Airlines' removal of a
    Questor: buy JD Sports for its unique relationships with the major sports
    Cyber attacks knock millions off FTSE share prices
    Comment: The UK can continue to be a world leader in fintech
    Fred Goodwin in court as 'misleading' RBS faces wrath of shareholders
    Comment: Barclays must once again prove it can save itself 
    Comment: JD Sports leaves Sports Direct in the shade
    Technology and the internet risk fuelling a surge in migration and
    Barclays investors warn 'entirely possible' regulators will force out boss
    Soaring Trump dollar risks global trade war and China currency crisis,
    Britain's essential role in global aerospace may come under pressure from
    Openreach aims to accelerate broadband upgrades in talks with BT rivals
We rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism.
We urge you to turn off your ad blocker for The Telegraph website so that you
can continue to access our quality content in the future.
