It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
The government is demanding to know who this Trump critic is. Twitter is suing
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Hayley Tsukayama By Hayley Tsukayama  April 6  Follow @htsuka
Twitter filed a federal lawsuit on April 6 to block an order by the U.S.
government demanding that it reveal who is behind an account opposed to
President Trump's tough immigration policies. (Reuters)
Update: The U.S. government has withdrawn its request ordering Twitter to
Twitter filed a lawsuit Thursday to block an order from the Department of
Homeland Security that seeks to reveal the user of an account who has been
critical of the Trump administration's immigration policies.
Tweets from the account -- @ALT_uscis -- indicate that it is run by someone who
is an employee of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services division of
Free speech advocates said the DHS order appeared to be the first time the
government has attempted to use its powers to expose an anonymous critic -- a
development that, if successful, would have a "grave chilling effect on the
speech of that account" as well as other accounts critical of the U.S.
[One thing Trump has stopped doing on Twitter since inauguration]
DHS is "unlawfully abusing a limited-purpose investigatory tool" to find out
who is behind the @ALT_uscis account, according to Twitter's court filings.
DHS spokeswoman Jenny Burke declined to comment, citing the pending litigation.
The case sets up a potential showdown over free speech between Silicon Valley
and Washington, which has tussled over whether tech firms can resist government
orders seeking the identity or personal information from criminals and
Apple, for instance, declined in early 2016 to unlock the phone of the shooter
in San Bernardino, Calif., and has refused to build "back doors" that would
enable law enforcement to break into smartphones. The move sparked a pitched
battle between the company and the FBI, which eventually paid a private expert
But the Homeland Security case struck free speech advocates as more remarkable
because the information request was about the identity of a government critic,
"Twitter has a pretty strong argument," said Andrew Crocker, a staff attorney
for the Electronic Frontier Foundation. "It does look and smell like the
government is going after a critic. There's nothing in the summons that CBP
[Customs and Border Protection] sent to Twitter that authorizes this request
The @ALT_uscis account, which was created in January, has not held back in
In a Jan. 26 tweet, the @ALT_uscis account tweeted: "Fact: More than 40% of
illegal aliens in the US are Visa overstays from other developed countries not
The account has also called attention to mismanagement in agency operations. In
a March 12 tweet, it said that "USCIS turns down regularly private companies
who propose collaboration to streamline the intake process, reducing costs and
The account's description stresses that its views are "Not the views of DHS or
USCIS." As of the time of the court filing, the account had been active for two
months and amassed more than 32,000 followers. By 8:15 p.m., that figure had
In its court filing with the U.S. District Court in the Northern District of
California, Twitter said that DHS officials delivered an administrative summons
to the social-networking site on March 14, via a CBP agent, demanding that the
company provide records that would "unmask or likely lead to the unmasking" of
Twitter maintains that CBP does not have jurisdiction to demand such
information, which includes "names, account login, phone numbers, mailing
addresses, and I.P. addresses," associated with the account.
But its primary objection, the company said, is that allowing the government to
unmask Twitter critics violates the Constitution's First Amendment right to
free speech. Twitter has defended its users' rights to free expression -- a
position it has held for years, notably during the widespread Arab Spring
protests in 2011. That right, the company said, is particularly important when
"First Amendment interests are at their zenith when, as here, the speech at
issue touches on matters of public political life," the filing said.
Twitter added that it feared the government wants to punish the person or
people responsible for the account. The summons, Twitter said, "may reflect the
very sort of official retaliation that can result from speech that criticizes
The company also has a lot at stake for its business, which could see a huge
hit if anonymous users could suddenly be unmasked by the government. Unlike
other social networks, Twitter allows its users to create accounts without
This isn't the first time Twitter has tangled with officials over its users'
The company in 2012 appealed an order from the state of New York to reveal the
identity of Occupy Wall Street protester Malcolm Harris. It lost that appeal.
Twitter sued the Justice Department in 2014 for the right to make federal
information requests for user data public. And it has lent its support to other
companies' fights against the government, including Apple's opposition to the
The American Civil Liberties Union, which is representing the user in the DHS
case, expressed concern that the order is an attempt to curb free speech. "To
unmask an anonymous speaker online, the government must have a strong
justification," ACLU attorney Nathan Freed Wessler said in a statement. "But in
this case the government has given no reason at all, leading to concerns that
ACLU said it plans to make its own filing in the court on behalf of the user in
"It's about the broader right to speak anonymously on the Internet," said Esha
The @ALT_uscis account is one of many "alternative government" accounts that
have popped up since Donald Trump's election. Accounts apparently run by
employees (or former employees) of the National Park Service, the National
Weather Service, the Labor Department and other agencies have appeared to
question the Trump administration's policies and fact-check its assertions
[National Weather Service has an ‘alt’ Twitter, and it already has over 71,000
The @ALT_uscis account didn't respond to a tweet asking for comment on the
suit, but was tweeting about the case and the account's new followers.
See what President Trump has been doing since taking office
The beginning of his term has featured controversial executive orders and
The beginning of his term has featured controversial executive orders and
April 9, 2017 President Donald Trump walks into a vehicle as he leaves
Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Florida Carlos Barria/Reuters
Staff writer Craig Timberg contributed to this report
In striking Syria, Trump risks confirming the worst fears about his presidency
How Apple and Microsoft are keeping the desktop off its deathbed
How I regularly book round-trip international flights for less than $400
Hayley Tsukayama covers consumer technology for The Washington Post.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
