It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
The inventor of the Web predicts ‘a massive outcry’ over online privacy
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Brian Fung By Brian Fung  April 4  Follow @b_fung
More than two decades ago, Tim Berners-Lee invented the thing you're using to
read this story right now — the World Wide Web. Since then, the Web has evolved
in ways few could have foreseen, giving rise to apps, the gig economy and smart
appliances. As Berners-Lee prepares to accept the prized Turing Award on
Tuesday — an honor recognizing the historic accomplishments of a computer
scientist — he reflected with The Post on Congress's recent vote (and President
Trump's signature on Monday night) to repeal the Federal Communications
Commission's privacy rules for Internet providers. The following transcript has
What's your reaction to last week's vote? Is it consistent with your vision for
We do things on the Web that are very intimate, like look up cancers we're
worried other people might have or that we're having. We have intimate
conversations with people in a way that we would have only in the very close
quarters of a security-locked room. Just by the things that we do on the Web
— we betray completely the most intimate details of our lives and hopes and
fears and weaknesses that can be exploited. Maybe the ISPs don't go in this
direction; maybe they realize it would be inappropriate. If they do [go in that
Google and Facebook already collect and share our data for advertising
Absolutely those industries are completely different. The business of supplying
bits is a really important business. It's like water; it's a lower part of the
infrastructure on which everything else depends. The fact that [your provider]
 doesn't have an attitude about what you use it for is why it's been
successful. It's why the Internet has taken over the world.
A social network is different — it's not got much to do with moving bits from
place to place. You have a choice, and even if you're a member of one of
these social networks, you don't have to do everything there.
What is going to happen to Internet users as a result of the legislation?
When President Trump signs [it], it's quite possible nothing happens at all.
But let's imagine what would happen if people started to record and sell the
clicks. The population would divide. Some people would protest and do their
best to switch to another ISP, and some people would decide they wouldn't have
the energy to do that. Some people would move to a huge market for different
technical systems. People would start using Tor. They'd start going through
proxies so that instead of your Internet traffic going straight to your house
it goes to a VPN [virtual private network]. Normal people in America will
basically go into defense cybersecurity lockdown against their ISPs. Everything
will get encrypted. People who care about it will find ways to deprive their
ISPs of data. . . . There'll be a great market for people who provide that
I've got them available to me here, but . . . I ought not to do that. Actually,
you shouldn't. [You should be] going to protest so the world outside becomes
one where you don't need to cheat to get around this problem, so that you don't
have to use skills as an expert to get around this problem.
If you were to go back and redesign the Web from the ground up, what features
would you have built in that aren't present today?
I think maybe we could've looked more into the idea of authentication and being
identified and not identified. There are some parts where we need to be
[verified]. I need to be able to write something that nobody can fake that it's
me. Then there are places where whistleblowers need to have anonymity. We need
to build systems that allow us to figure that out.
Brian Fung covers technology for The Washington Post, focusing on
telecommunications, Internet access and the shifting media economy. Before
joining The Post, he was the technology correspondent for National Journal and
an associate editor at the Atlantic. Follow him at @b_fung.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
