It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
Jeff Bezos shows off the crew capsule that could soon take tourists to space
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Christian Davenport By Christian Davenport  April 5  Follow @wapodavenport
Jeffrey P. Bezos unveils Blue Origin's crew capsule at the Space Symposium in
COLORADO SPRINGS — The seats are comfortable, laid back with headrests like a
La-Z-Boy. The walls are padded and white, and there are handles all over the
place so that the floating astronauts can hang on like people riding the Metro.
But it’s the windows that are the defining feature of the spacecraft that
Jeffrey P. Bezos showed off Wednesday at the Space Symposium, a conference
here. In a year or more — Bezos said the timing hasn’t been decided — his space
company Blue Origin plans to begin flying tourists past the edge of space, 62
miles high, where for about four minutes they’ll experience the thrill of
weightlessness and view the curvature of the Earth.
“Everybody says that when you go to space, it changes you,” said Bezos, the
founder of Amazon.com and the owner of The Washington Post. “All the astronauts
come back with stories like that. It’s very emotional to see this Earth, to see
Blue Origin is one of several entrepreneurial companies that are seeking to
lower the cost of access to space, and touch off what Bezos said could become a
“golden age of space.” In addition to Blue Origin, Elon Musk’s SpaceX has
accomplished several feats, such as becoming the first commercial venture to
fly a spacecraft to the International Space Station. Last week, SpaceX became
the first company to re-fly the first stage of a rocket that had delivered a
Virgin Galactic, founded by Richard Branson, also plans to fly tourists to
space, and is in the middle of testing its new space plane, SpaceShipTwo, which
would be tethered to the bellow of a mother ship and then launched in
flight. Virgin charges $250,000 a flight; Blue Origin hasn’t decided what its
Flanked by the Blue Origin spacecraft and the New Shepard booster, which has
flown past the edge of space five times, Bezos said the company could begin
flying paying customers as soon as 2018, but the schedule is fluid.
Although his “singular focus is people in space,” the flight-testing program
“We are not racing,” he said. “This vehicle is going to carry humans. We’re
going to make it as safe as we can make it … we’re not going to take any
The goal of Blue Origin, the space company Bezos founded in 2000, is to one day
help enable “millions of people living and working in space,” as Bezos likes to
say. Space tourism is a first step on that journey, Bezos said, a way for the
company to practice launching on a frequent basis.
The suborbital tourist flights would require minimal training, he said, and be
quick, just 10 or 11 minutes. As many as six passengers would board the
spacecraft about 30 minutes before liftoff. Near the flight’s apogee, the
capsule would separate from a booster that would fly back and land on a landing
pad on the ground. The capsule would continue climbing, allowing the passengers
to unbuckleand then float around the cabin for about four minutes before the
Upon reentry, the passengers would for a few moments experience 5 Gs, or five
times the gravitational force. At touchdown, the capsule would be traveling at
And no, people throwing up isn’t a serious concern, he said.
“It takes about three hours before you start to throw up,” he said. “It’s a
delayed effect, and this journey takes 10 or 11 minutes, so you’re going to be
Blue Origin's business model has been, “I sell about $1 billion a year of
Amazon stock, and I use it to invest in Blue Origin.” But the company is also
working on an orbital rocket, the New Glenn, which is expected to fly by 2020.
The company has signed up customers for that rocket and is looking for more.
“I think it’s very important the Blue Origin stand on its own feet,”
Christian Davenport covers the defense and space industries for The Post's
Financial desk. He joined The Post in 2000 and has served as an editor on the
Metro desk and as a reporter covering military affairs. He is the author of "As
You Were: To War and Back with the Black Hawk Battalion of the Virginia
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
