It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
The FCC wants to block dozens of companies from providing low-cost Internet
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Brian Fung By Brian Fung  March 30  Follow @b_fung
The head of the Federal Communications Commission said Wednesday he wants to
block requests by dozens of small and rural Internet providers hoping to offer
subsidized broadband connections to low-income Americans nationwide,
saying that state officials should decide whether to allow those companies to
participate in the federal program known as Lifeline.
The decision comes a month after the FCC's Republican chairman, Ajit Pai,
placed a hold on the applications of nine providers that he said were approved
in the eleventh hour by his Democratic predecessor, Tom Wheeler. And it signals
a broader retrenchment for the program, which was dramatically expanded under
Wheeler by a partisan vote to provide for Internet access.
Through Lifeline, roughly 3.5 million Americans receive a monthly credit worth
$9.25 that they then use to reduce the cost of buying mobile or residential
broadband. Millions more use the subsidy to purchase traditional phone service.
The program, which was created during the Reagan administration, supports
seniors, veterans and rural Americans who otherwise cannot afford phone or
Internet service. It is not funded by taxpayer dollars but by the fees
Pai's decision this week takes aim at the FCC's role in approving companies to
participate in the Lifeline broadband program. While he said Lifeline
should continue to support Internet service as an eligible benefit, the FCC
should not be the agency to decide which providers may join, he argued.
"The law here is clear: Congress gave state governments, not the FCC, the
primary responsibility for approving which companies can participate in the
Lifeline program under Section 214 of the Communications Act," Pai said.
The National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners, which represents
state public utility commissions, welcomed Wednesday's decision.
"Eliminating the national designation procedure puts more ‘state cops on the
beat,'" said Paul Kjellander, a commissioner on Idaho's public utilities
commission, "and strengthens both complementary state Lifeline programs and the
quality of service provided to customers, as well as deters fraud and abuse of
Opponents of the decision said the move will limit struggling Americans'
ability to choose a good provider, particularly in rural or low-income areas.
"The Chairman’s position stands in stark contrast to his stated aim to close
the digital divide," said the consumer group Public Knowledge, "by raising
barriers to affordable choices available to low-income families."
Lifeline has long been criticized by Republicans for waste, fraud and abuse.
Reforms enacted in recent years have cut down on some of those issues, though
conservatives say there could be more savings to be found in the program.
"Chairman Pai will … be shown to be a supporter of a properly structured,
efficient Lifeline program," said Randolph May, president of the right-leaning
Brian Fung covers technology for The Washington Post, focusing on
telecommunications, Internet access and the shifting media economy. Before
joining The Post, he was the technology correspondent for National Journal and
an associate editor at the Atlantic. Follow him at @b_fung.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
