It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
Windows 10 ‘Creators Update’ looks to make some intimidating things easy
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Hayley Tsukayama By Hayley Tsukayama  March 29  Follow @htsuka
[3dmodel-10] Microsoft wants to make 3-D modeling easy for everyone with its
The idea for Microsoft's latest upgrade to Windows 10 is to make some
intimidating things, such as 3-D modeling, easy enough that any person could
The company announced Wednesday that the new “Creators Update” for Windows 10 —
its third major upgrade since the system launched in 2015 — adds a function
that lets users turn their smartphones into 3-D scanners, then import those 3-D
images into their computers. It also adds support for virtual-reality and
Although both features seem pretty far out of the mainstream, it’s all part of
an attempt to cement Windows 10 as a platform for creation as it looks
introduce technology that it thinks will one day be on everyone's devices.
Creative users are often more closely associated with Apple’s Macs, while the
PC has traditionally been thought of as a productivity machine. (Those “I’m a
Mac, I’m a PC” commercials may be from Apple's perspective, but they had some
truth to them.) But Microsoft has recently been courting artists, architects,
musicians, gamers and designers with its latest software and hardware —
including its 28-inch touch screen Surface Studio PC, which the company said
Wednesday it will sell in three additional markets this April, including China.
Panos Panay, corporate vice president for Surface Computing, holds the new
Microsoft Surface Studio computer at a live event in the Manhattan borough of
New York on Oct. 26, 2016. (Lucas Jackson/Reuters)
The new Windows update underscores this push. “The Creators Update is borne out
of the idea that we want to empower the ability to create in all of us,” said
Yusuf Mehdi, Microsoft’s corporate vice president for devices and services.
For example, Medhi said, parents may take a photo to remember a sand castle
they build with their kids on vacation. Now, they could walk around the sand
castle with their phones to create a 3-D replica model, which they could then
print and give to their child as a memento of that vacation.
Scanning a couch in a store, he said, could help you figure out the best
placement for it in your home. Or users could take a 360-degree video of some
memorable spot on their vacations, and use a virtual or mixed reality headset
(such as Microsoft's own HoloLens) to share that with others.
Although Mehdi acknowledges that not every Windows user may be dying to create
their own 3-D models or virtual reality videos quite yet, he believes that
adding these features helps Microsoft pave the way for the day when we all
Looking ahead, Medhi said that creativity will continue to be a focus for
future Windows upgrades, which Microsoft is now doing with smaller and more
regular updates rather than large releases every couple of years.
The Creators Update will be released as a free Windows 10 upgrade on April 11.
All Windows 10 users will get a notification about the update over the coming
weeks. Those interested in getting the update as soon as possible can download
it directly from Microsoft’s website once it is released.
Microsoft is using the update to embrace other emerging trends as well, such as
the growth of live-streaming for video games. A new feature will allow Windows
10 users to easily live-stream games from their PCs, and chat with their
It is also updating its Edge browser, which, despite being included with
Windows 10, still lags behind Google’s Chrome in popularity among Windows 10
users. Mehdi said new features, such security improvements, the ability to
group tabs and some behind-the-scenes power improvements to make Edge easier on
battery life could help persuade Windows users to switch.
Hayley Tsukayama covers consumer technology for The Washington Post.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
