It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
The CIA may have hacked iPhones and Macs before they even got to customers, but
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Hayley Tsukayama By Hayley Tsukayama  March 23  Follow @htsuka
This post has been updated with statements from Apple and the CIA.
WikiLeaks claimed Thursday that the CIA had found a way to intercept and hack
into Apple iPhones just a year after the company's smartphone hit the market.
The group also claimed that the CIA was able to infect Mac computers. But it's
very unlikely that your iPhone or Mac was affected, experts say.
Apple said that its preliminary assessment of the WikiLeaks documents show that
the "alleged iPhone vulnerability affected iPhone 3G only and was fixed in 2009
when iPhone 3GS was released." The company also said that the alleged Mac
exploits described by WikiLeaks were fixed in all Macs launched after 2013.
The CIA referred The Post to an earlier statement that declined to comment on
the accuracy of the WikiLeaks information, but denounced disclosures "designed
to damage the Intelligence Community’s ability to protect America against
The documents offer a rare glimpse into the world of modern espionage, said
Jeff Pollard, a security and risk analyst at Forrester Research. For Apple and
other companies, he said, it also shows that it's very difficult to secure
their products all the way from their factories to their customers.
"The most concerning part of this is that it highlights that it doesn't matter
how secure you keep a device," he said. "You have to understand that there
could also be something that gets delivered to you in a device that you
According to WikiLeaks, the documents allege that, as far back as 2008, the CIA
was able to install software on iPhones before they were shipped to their
intended owners. There's no evidence of tampering done at Apple's factories,
experts said. The documents also purportedly show that the CIA found a way to
install software on Macs that could not be removed, even if a user were to
reinstall their operating system. There is a specific mention of the CIA trying
to intercept a laptop that it knew was being given to someone as a gift to
plant its malware. Both methods require physical access to the devices.
There is no evidence in the documents that the CIA used these methods on a
[WikiLeaks: The CIA is using popular TVs, smartphones and cars to spy on their
Experts who examined the documents said there is little chance that the average
consumer — particularly in the United States, given the CIA's foreign focus
— would have been affected by these attacks, said Will Strafach, a noted iPhone
security expert and co-founder of Verify.ly, a mobile app intelligence service.
It's also unlikely that anyone could look at these documents now and design a
"It’s too old. And even if it wasn’t too old, it requires you to get to a
device that is en route to somebody specific," he said.
The release of these documents follow a similar disclosure from WikiLeaks
earlier this month, which allegedly outlined a suite of hacking tools used by
the CIA that target smartphones, cars and televisions. The group has said that
it will work with technology companies to help patch flaws exploited by the
CIA's hacking tools, but offered few details on how such a partnership would
Apple said that it has not "negotiated with WikiLeaks for any information" and
has instructed the organization to submit information though its normal
processes. "Thus far, we have not received any information from them that isn’t
in the public domain," the company's statement said. "We are tireless defenders
of our users' security and privacy, but we do not condone theft or coordinate
Hayley Tsukayama covers consumer technology for The Washington Post.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
