It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
Perspective Interpretation of the news based on evidence, including data, as
well as anticipating how events might unfold based on past events
Should broadband be included in the Trump infrastructure plan?
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Blair Levin and Larry Downes By Blair Levin and Larry Downes  April 5  
A House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee recently reviewed options for
completing America’s impressive progress in deploying broadband infrastructure.
Unlike other issues, there is bipartisan agreement on the importance of putting
the 21st century’s most valuable technology into the hands of all Americans,
and especially those in rural and tribal areas who have the fewest, if any,
options for getting online. There’s even broad agreement on how to do it.
As the White House and Congress develop an infrastructure plan promised during
the campaign, many, including senators, House members and mayors, are urging
that broadband be included. While our crumbling 20th-century infrastructure of
roads, bridges, water and mass transit clearly need more immediate attention
and the bulk of the funding, we agree that broadband should be included,
balancing fixes to the past with providing for the future.
As always, the devil will be in the details. On that score, there are valuable
lessons from the last large federal infrastructure effort, the 2009 Recovery
Act. One of the most valuable results of that effort was one that cost almost
nothing — the creation of a National Broadband Plan, which one of us directed.
The plan stimulated private providers and new entrants to accelerate
investments in next-generation fiber and mobile networks, and raised alarm
bells heeded by Congress and the Federal Communications Commission to allocate
much more radio spectrum for future technologies. Those well-timed decisions
will now provide the foundation for 5G technologies that will jump-start the
next wave of disruptive innovation over the next 10 years.
But while some of the direct investments in “shovel-ready” broadband build-out
projects were successful, billions in stimulus money was wasted by the
Department of Agriculture’s Rural Utility Service. Its many sins included
funding projects in population centers that already had broadband, poor project
management and a failure to properly vet loan applicants, many of whom
defaulted. RUS promised to connect 7 million rural Americans. The actual number
To avoid these and other costly mistakes, here are eight simple ground rules we
hope Congress will follow in crafting broadband-related infrastructure
1. Limit and carefully control direct investment funds. Congress should
consider setting aside a modest portion of any new infrastructure fund, say $20
billion, for a one-time rural broadband acceleration program. Carriers would be
offered subsidies to build out in rural areas currently without a broadband
provider, with the requirement of implementing technologies with sufficient
bandwidth to support future growth, perhaps up to 100 Mbps speeds. To avoid
problems that plagued the Recovery Act’s scattered broadband initiatives, the
acceleration program should be managed entirely by one agency, with strict
controls to help ensure troubled projects get attention (or cut off) sooner
Calculation of specific subsidies should be made on a per-location basis,
determining how much is needed to overcome otherwise prohibitive build-out
2. Don’t offer ongoing support. To date, efforts to provide universal access to
rural broadband infrastructure has suffered from a structural flaw. The FCC
provides payments in the form of small ongoing annual subsidies, even in areas
when all that was needed was an initial capital investment. As a result, it can
take years for providers to recoup their own capital investments, creating
incentives to build piecemeal in rural areas, and to make decisions based on
what providers believe the government will fund rather than on what consumers
Future investments should avoid this error by offering carefully structured
one-time subsidies, saving billions in ongoing costs. While some high-cost
areas will continue to need both one-time capital and operating support, the
emphasis should be on locations for which capital support alone can overcome
3. Use market mechanisms where possible. After establishing the per-location
subsidy needed, the government may find there are more providers willing to
build in underserved rural and tribal areas than there are funds to support
them. If so, the FCC should run a reverse auction among competing providers to
bid down the per-location cost. Commission Chairman Ajit Pai has already
proposed  such a solution to improve the efficiency of existing universal
service programs, with the goal of letting market forces deliver “the best deal
4. Extend “Dig Once/Climb Once” policies on government property. Lack of
coordination between broadband and other infrastructure projects wastes time
and resources. At least two bills circulating in Congress now would expand a
“Dig Once” rule, requiring installation of broadband conduit whenever roads are
being dug up for any reason, along with a “Climb Once” policy whenever new
equipment is being added to existing utility poles. Dig Once alone can reduce
the cost of deploying fiber under highways in urban areas up to 33 percent and
up to 16 percent in rural areas, according to the Government Accountability
Office. A coalition of public policy think tanks recommended at a recent
hearing that the policy be expanded to state roads, and to all public rights of
5. Improve government processes that hinder private investment. Direct
expenditure of taxpayer or borrowed funds is not the only tool available to
accelerate broadband investment. For providers, the costs of dealing with slow
and overly bureaucratic local governments can be significant and, at the
margins, have already proven decisive in which cities get new private
infrastructure investment and which ones do not. Simply providing a single
point of contact within a local government can make a big difference in both
speed and cost of deployment, along with access to city property and
streamlined zoning processes. Best practices should be established at the
6. Embrace emerging technologies. For the most sparsely populated and
geologically challenging parts of the United States, the economics of laying
fiber-optic cable are unlikely to make sense any time soon, even with
subsidies. So the question becomes not only what alternative broadband
technologies are best suited to rural and mountainous regions, but how to
encourage providers to deploy them. In many rural areas, for example, fixed
wireless technologies have proven themselves capable of providing high-speed,
last-mile connections to homes and businesses. Satellite-based solutions have
also matured, as have hybrid fiber/copper technologies using existing telephone
lines. No matter how the infrastructure bill provides for broadband in these
locations, it should do so on a technology-neutral basis to encourage continued
7. Address nonfinancial causes of the digital divide. Availability and even
price are not the only things holding back broadband adoption. As we have noted
, over half of consumers who don’t have Internet service at home — largely
older and rural Americans and those with less education — say they don’t want
or need it, even if it were free. Part of that resistance comes from the fact
that unconnected Americans don’t know how to use a computer or even a
smartphone, let alone how to install and maintain networking equipment inside
or outside their home. Whatever funding the infrastructure law provides for
broadband will be wasted if some of that support isn’t directed to providing
hands-on education, perhaps through community groups and senior centers, as
well as simple interfaces for basic technical service.
8. Use the bully pulpit to encourage digital want-nots. Solving the training
and support issues of the least tech-savvy users won’t fully answer the
relevance problem. Digital want-nots also need to understand the value of
getting online. These include the obvious benefits of connecting to family and
friends and expanding entertainment options. But there are more fundamental
ways emerging technologies, including the Internet of Things and smart homes
and communities, can improve quality of life, especially for seniors hoping to
age in place in their homes. Many of these benefits were detailed in the
National Broadband Plan, but neither the FCC nor the White House used it to
promote a vision of tomorrow that would make getting online today irresistible.
Public education about why the infrastructure bill is spending money on
broadband will be critical to getting value from our investment.
Overall, improving broadband infrastructure will require spending federal funds
more wisely, but, more important, providing incentives for private investors to
reallocate their own capital in ways that ultimately benefit everyone. In some
Following these basic steps will maximize the value of taxpayer money spent on
broadband infrastructure. More to the point, they can multiply government
spending through continued private investment, accelerating efforts to close
the digital divide and bring the least-connected parts of the country into our
growing digital conversation. That’s truly a win-win-win.
Blair Levin is a nonresident senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. In
2009, he oversaw development of the National Broadband Plan. Larry Downes is
project director at the Georgetown Center for Business and Public Policy and
co-author of “Big Bang Disruption: Strategy in the Age of Devastating
Downes is co-author with Paul Nunes of “Big Bang Disruption: Strategy in the
Age of Devastating Innovation” (Portfolio 2014). He is a project director at
the Georgetown Center for Business and Public Policy.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
