It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
Verizon has a name for its AOL-Yahoo combination — and the Internet is having a
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Brian Fung By Brian Fung  April 3  Follow @b_fung
Yahoo chief executive Marissa Mayer. (Julie Jacobson/AP)
With Verizon moving ahead with its purchase of Yahoo, the telecom giant is
thinking ahead to a broader rebranding of its new Internet properties,
Once the Yahoo deal closes, AOL and Yahoo will be known as Oath — or more
formally, “Oath: A Verizon Company,” as a tweet on Monday from AOL chief
    Billion+ Consumers, 20+ Brands, Unstoppable Team. #TakeTheOath. Summer
    — Tim Armstrong (@timarmstrongaol) April 3, 2017
The new name, which was first reported by Business Insider, promptly received
    Orientation at Oath pic.twitter.com/1eFHXhmk87
    The obvious solution here was just to make "AOL!" the new name. https://
    Tribune Publishing: "We will now be known as Tronc."
    Verizon: “Hold my beer.” https://t.co/KSP4C87tEO
But for Verizon, the acquisition is no laughing matter. It bought AOL in part
to take advantage of its advertising technology, which will become all the more
valuable when Verizon can use it to sell increasingly targeted ads against
Judging by Armstrong's tweet, which points to “20+ brands,” it appears that
many of the individual services and features that consumers currently associate
with Yahoo and AOL properties, such as the Huffington Post or Yahoo Sports,
Verizon bought AOL in 2015 for $4.4 billion, and announced it would pay $4.8
billion for Yahoo a year later. But before long, revelations about multiple
historic data breaches at Yahoo called the fate of the deal into question, and
Verizon ultimately settled on a new agreement in February to buy Yahoo for
AOL declined to elaborate on the meaning behind “Oath,” but said in a statement
that it will be “one of the most disruptive brand companies in digital.”
Yahoo declined to comment. Verizon didn't immediately respond to a request for
Brian Fung covers technology for The Washington Post, focusing on
telecommunications, Internet access and the shifting media economy. Before
joining The Post, he was the technology correspondent for National Journal and
an associate editor at the Atlantic. Follow him at @b_fung.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
