It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
Facebook takes new steps to stop ‘revenge porn’ images from spreading
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Hayley Tsukayama By Hayley Tsukayama  April 5  Follow @htsuka
Facebook said Wednesday that it is taking more steps to crack down on its
network's “revenge porn” problem, including a new process that prevents users
from reposting intimate images shared without the subject's consent.
While Facebook's community guidelines already forbid posting revenge porn, the
social network said it will now identify and catalog specific images reported
as revenge porn, according to a blog post by Facebook's head of global safety,
Victims of nonconsensual porn often find it very hard to get images of
themselves removed from the Internet, because it's so easy to share photos that
have been removed in other places. Photo-matching software will allow Facebook
to prevent photos that have been removed from surfacing again, at least on its
[Emma Watson is the latest woman to have her private photos stolen and released
“If someone tries to share the image after it's been reported and removed, we
will alert them that it violates our policies and that we have stopped their
Policing such images has proved to be a difficult task for Facebook and other
social networks that deal with a flood of posts each day and have not always
consistently enforced their policies on graphic images. Twitter also says that
posting revenge porn on its network violates its community standards. Both
companies have supported legislation that would make it illegal to distribute
About 4 percent of U.S. Internet users — 10.4 million people — have been
victims of revenge porn or threatened with the posting of explicit images,
according to a 2016 study by the Data and Society Research Institute.
[‘It’s Marine Corps wide’: Female Marines detail harassment in wake of nude
Facebook's policies on revenge porn have come into sharp focus after members of
the Marine Corps were found to be sharing nude pictures of female Marines,
After those violations became public, many called on Facebook to clean up its
act. "[With] US revenge porn law still a patchwork of difficult-to-enforce
statutes, it’s increasingly incumbent on Facebook to come up with the solution
itself,” wrote Wired's Emma Grey Ellis in March. She said that Facebook
should devise a more proactive solution to tackling revenge porn, rather than
The policy has its pros and cons, said Soraya Chemaly, the founder of the
Safety and Free Speech Coalition. One big positive, she said, is that Facebook
is expanding its efforts to combat harassment that isn't just in text. "I think
that attempt to incorporate responses to photography and its uses and abuses
Chemaly would like to see more transparency from Facebook regarding how it will
judge the tricky questions of what constitutes consent and who owns images that
are posted. "I think this is a positive step, if you have to be in the business
Companies can have a tricky time censoring user content in general, said
Danielle Citron, a Unviersity of Maryland law professor who has researched
online harassment. In this case, Citron said, she believes that the parameters
of what constitutes "revenge porn" makes defining what's appropriate and what
isn't more clear than having to pass similar judgement on what is, for example,
But, she said, she appreciated that Facebook is taking its time to respond to
users' concerns. "They're moving slowly because they want to get it right, and
The new process will go into effect on Facebook, Facebook Messenger and
Instagram. Facebook said the new step to the reporting process will feel
familiar for those who've flagged posts for Facebook before.
[How to curb online harassment? Technology, law and advocacy can help.]
Users will be able to report images by clicking on the “Report” link, which
appears when you tap on the down arrow — or "…” if you are on mobile — in the
upper right-hand corner of a post. The social network will then refer the image
to its community operations team, for review by employees, who will then
Those who've posted photos can appeal Facebook's decision.
The company said Wednesday that it worked with several groups to develop its
new policies, including the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative — a group founded by
Holly Jacobs, who had been a victim of revenge porn. Davis said that Facebook
has worked with the group to create a “one-stop shop” for reporting revenge
“We convened over 150 safety organizations and experts last year in Kenya,
India, Ireland, Washington DC, New York, Spain, Turkey, Sweden and the
Netherlands to get feedback on ways we can improve,” the company said.
Rep. Jackie Speier (D-Calif.), who has sponsored legislation that would make
revenge porn illegal, said in a statement that Facebook's “new tools are a huge
advancement in combating nonconsensual pornography and I applaud Facebook for
their dedication in addressing this insidious issue.”
While the feature may prevent reported images from spreading through Facebook,
it still depends on users reporting the images — which may not happen too often
in closed groups such as Marines United, where users have created a community
to share these types of images. Chemaly said that the move to private sharing,
over messaging services as well as within private groups is a broader concern
Davis said Facebook's privacy tools will continue to evolve.
Hayley Tsukayama covers consumer technology for The Washington Post.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
