It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
The days of owning a car could be fading away, thanks to these alternatives
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Brian Fung By Brian Fung  March 20  Follow @b_fung
A Cadillac ATS-L luxury sports sedan is displayed at the Beijing International
Automotive Exhibition in 2016 in Beijing. (Qilai Shen/Bloomberg)
Recent years have seen an explosion in services that offer a product for a flat
monthly fee. No longer the domain of magazines or newspapers, the subscription
model now supports everything from streaming music to clothing shipments.
Now, that approach is increasingly coming to the automobile. Since its debut in
February, between 4,000 and 5,000 people have signed up for a Cadillac pilot
project that lets drivers swap one automobile for another almost as easily as
they can switch TV shows, according to the company.
The program, known as Book by Cadillac, charges $1,500 a month and lets drivers
cancel anytime. The premium service grants access to 10 Cadillac models. Using
a smartphone, customers can trade in their vehicles up to 18 times a year. So
far, the program has only been available in the New York City area, but in
light of its popularity, it could expand to other big cities, Cadillac said.
“There's potential for global expansion,” said Andrew Lipman, a Cadillac
spokesman. “There are a lot of ways we can expand this. But we want to hone in
The Cadillac project is targeted at consumers of luxury vehicles. But GM has
also explored a similar business model in its more mainstream Chevrolet line,
with a test program launched earlier this month known as Maven Reserve. That
service allows drivers in Los Angeles and San Francisco to rent a Chevy Tahoe
or Volt for up to 28 days for a flat monthly fee. Both programs appear
superficially similar to leasing, but are more expensive, cover maintenance and
insurance and come with added perks, such as Cadillac's on-the-fly swapping
system and Maven's offer of $100 worth of fuel and a dedicated parking space
The two programs reflect a big bet on the future of car ownership. At a time
when rising debt and lower wages have forced some Americans, particularly
younger ones, to put off major purchases such as homes and cars, alternatives
to traditional car ownership are poised to become more common, said Johanna
Zmud, a senior research scientist at Texas A&M's Transportation Institute.
Other factors contributing to a long-term shift in ownership patterns are
changing marriage rates, said Zmud, as well as a growing tendency for Americans
Shifting beliefs about ownership are not only giving rise to vehicle sharing,
but also greater flexibility in vehicle types. Rather than purchasing and
holding onto the same car for a decade or more, consumers who use car
subscription services are able to choose different vehicles to suit different
needs on-the-fly. For example, the same car subscription could allow drivers to
select a fuel-efficient sedan for weekday commutes while letting them switch to
Some competitors to GM have begun to offer this feature, as well. Car2Go, which
serves D.C. along with New York City, Portland, Ore., and Austin, recently
expanded its fleet of tiny, zippy Smart cars to include larger Mercedes-Benz
sedans and SUVs. Those vehicles can be rented on daily, hourly and
by-the-minute rates. For short trips across town, Car2Go's prices are
competitive with those of ride-hailing services such as Uber or Lyft.
Both of GM's programs are substantially more expensive. Even Maven Reserve,
which is targeted at Chevy drivers, costs upward of $1,100 a month. Beyond the
largely affluent markets where it's being tested, it is unclear whether there
is much of a market for GM's subscription services. BMW had considered offering
a similar platform for its vehicles, but balked at the business case, according
Still, with societal trends pushing Americans to give up the hunk of metal and
alloy sitting in their driveways, it's clear that experiments with new business
Brian Fung covers technology for The Washington Post, focusing on
telecommunications, Internet access and the shifting media economy. Before
joining The Post, he was the technology correspondent for National Journal and
an associate editor at the Atlantic. Follow him at @b_fung.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
