It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
Analysis Interpretation of the news based on evidence, including data, as well
as anticipating how events might unfold based on past events
A McDonald’s Twitter account insulted Trump, and now it is content: A
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Abby Ohlheiser By Abby Ohlheiser  March 16  Follow @abbyohlheiser
A hacker used McDonald's corporate Twitter account to send anti-Trump tweets.
Here are four other times high-profile accounts have been hacked. (Thomas
Hi. Today’s viral news story has been chosen, and it is this tweet from a
verified corporate account run by McDonald’s, the popular fast-food restaurant.
As you can clearly see in Exhibit A above, the tweet is a reply to President
Trump, and it is not very nice to him. Whoever tweeted it really wanted to make
sure that a lot of people saw it, which is why it was the “pinned tweet” for
this account Thursday morning before it was deleted.
[Why your viral ‘heroes’ probably shouldn’t be the Twitter accounts of brands]
“Rogue” tweets, from dubious anonymous accounts claiming to be from Trump
administration staffers or from real, verified accounts of brands and
government agencies, have become a favorite meme for parts of the American
public who are desperately looking for signs, any sign, of institutional #
resistance against the president. Which is why this McDonald’s tweet was
destined to become content the moment it was born. Here is a step-by-step guide
At 9:16 a.m., the @McDonaldsCorp account tweets at the president: “You are
actually a disgusting excuse of a President and we would love to have
@BarackObama back, also you have tiny hands.” The tweet comes from the
company’s corporate account; the brand account is @McDonalds.
The tweet collects hundreds of retweets. This is not something a brand should
tweet, although it’s pretty clear that many people sharing this one are happy
Step 3: People take screen shots of the McDonald’s tweet. 
The first thing you do when you see a corporate account of a major
international company tweet something like this is take a screen shot. Usually
they don’t stay up for long. So even as the original tweet is being retweeted,
others are posting their own, more permanent records of the tweet.
    .@McDonalds tweet that will presumably soon be deleted pic.twitter.com/
If you, like me, follow a lot of people who closely follow politics, then you
probably saw your feed turn into a river of images of this same tweet earlier
Step 4: People meme and joke about the McDonald’s tweet. 
This one was actually pretty easy to accomplish, because as it turns out,
McDonald’s and Trump have a history. Snippets of this commercial become GIFs:
    "McDonald's? Never heard of it, and I wouldn't eat it anyway"
The tweet is deleted, but thanks to step 3, there are plenty of records.
Although some outlets made their content about the tweet even before McDonald’s
deleted it (congrats!), the story continues to spread even after McDonald’s
gets rid of the tweet. By 10 a.m., it’s the lead story on the Drudge Report.
And many other places have converted the tweet into a headline:
    Twitter notified us that our account was compromised. We deleted the tweet,
    secured our account and are now investigating this.
We, like many outlets, reached out to McDonald’s about the original
tweet. McDonald’s issued the above statement via Twitter later Thursday
Terri Hickey, a spokesperson for McDonald’s, later emailed us an identical
  • A running list of all the possible subtweets of President Trump from
  • J.K. Rowling and Piers Morgan embody the extremes of online celebrity, in
  • How an online fight about dogs became one of 2016’s greatest memes
Abby Ohlheiser is a general assignment reporter for The Washington Post.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Washington Post’s David Fahrenthold wins Pulitzer Prize for dogged
    Perspective Carolyn Hax: Caring for a dying parent and mourning lost
    Someone hacked every tornado siren in Dallas. It was loud.
    Via Skype, the White House opens press briefings to Trump-friendly
    This is why you’re seeing so much beef jerky lately
