It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
The crucial service Trump left out of his massive infrastructure goals, and how
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Brian Fung By Brian Fung  March 15  Follow @b_fung
When politicians talk about infrastructure, they typically mean the basics:
Roads, bridges, ports. The electric grid. Maybe rail, if it's lucky.
But America's top telecom regulator wants the government to expand that
thinking by including a type of network that 3 out of 4 Americans use on a
daily basis, but doesn't often make it on the politicians' lists: high-speed
“If Congress moves forward with a major infrastructure package, broadband
should be included,” said Ajit Pai, chairman of the Federal Communications
Pai is proposing an ambitious program whereby the FCC could expand corporate
subsidies for building networks while scaling back regulations that, he said,
deter private investment. In addition, Pai is asking that Congress offer tax
credits to Internet service providers and entrepreneurs who agree to set up
shop in “gigabit opportunity zones” that could be as large as a county or as
“High-speed Internet access, or broadband, is giving rise to what I have called
the democratization of entrepreneurship,” said Pai, who in the speech
identified broadband as a “core component” of U.S. infrastructure. “With a
powerful plan and a digital connection, you can raise capital, start a
business, immediately reach a worldwide customer base, and disrupt an entire
Thus far, broadband has rarely come up as President Trump has touted a $1
trillion infrastructure proposal. His recent remarks to a joint session of
Congress, for example, omitted Internet access from his laundry list of
infrastructure priorities. In private meetings with advisers, Trump has
inquired about auctioning off airwaves to cellphone carriers, which could
help mobile data providers upgrade their networks. But reports of those
meetings suggest Trump may have been unaware of recent (and historic) FCC
Asked by The Washington Post whether Trump supports Pai's proposals, the
administration said Wednesday that Americans should stay tuned. But even that
“All options are still on the table as the President and his administration
continue to build on an infrastructure plan that will revitalize our country’s
ruined roads, crumbling bridges, and outdated airports — ultimately creating
more American jobs across the country,” the statement read.
Some lawmakers appear committed to including broadband as part of a wider
congressional infrastructure bill. Sen. John Thune, the chairman of the
powerful Commerce Committee, told reporters recently that he would be open to
using FCC funds to encourage the construction of broadband connections where it
would otherwise be economically unattractive. And Thune has rolled out his own
legislation to shift more airwaves to wireless carriers.
It's unclear whether Pai may have brought up broadband investment in a meeting
last week with Trump. But as Pai uses his Pittsburgh appearance to kick off a
days-long tour of middle America, it's clear the FCC intends to get more
Americans thinking about broadband as a form of infrastructure just like any
Brian Fung covers technology for The Washington Post, focusing on
telecommunications, Internet access and the shifting media economy. Before
joining The Post, he was the technology correspondent for National Journal and
an associate editor at the Atlantic. Follow him at @b_fung.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
