It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
The House just voted to wipe away the FCC’s landmark Internet privacy
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Brian Fung By Brian Fung  March 28  Follow @b_fung
The Senate and House have voted to repeal an FCC ruling that protects your
Internet privacy and data from ISPs. Here's all the steps you can take to
protect yourself. (Jhaan Elker/The Washington Post)
Congress sent proposed legislation to President Trump on Tuesday that wipes
away landmark online privacy protections, the first salvo in what is likely to
become a significant reworking of the rules governing Internet access in an era
In a party-line vote, House Republicans freed Internet service providers such
as Verizon, AT&T and Comcast of protections approved just last year that had
sought to limit what companies could do with information such as customer
browsing habits, app usage history, location data and Social Security numbers.
The rules also had required providers to strengthen safeguards for customer
[What to expect now that Internet providers can collect and sell your Web
The Senate has voted to nullify those measures, which were set to take effect
at the end of this year. If Trump signs the legislation as expected, providers
will be able to monitor their customers’ behavior online and, without their
permission, use their personal and financial information to sell highly
targeted ads — making them rivals to Google and Facebook in the $83 billion
The providers could also sell their users’ information directly to marketers,
financial firms and other companies that mine personal data — all of whom could
use the data without consumers’ consent. In addition, the Federal
Communications Commission, which initially drafted the protections, would be
forbidden from issuing similar rules in the future.
Search engines and streaming-video sites already collect usage data on
consumers. But consumer activists claim that Internet providers may know much
more about a person’s activities because they can see all of the sites a
And although consumers can easily abandon sites whose privacy practices they
don’t agree with, it is far more difficult to choose a different Internet
provider, the activists said. Many Americans have a choice of only one or two
broadband companies in their area, according to federal statistics.
Advocates for tough privacy protections online called Tuesday’s vote “a
“Today’s vote means that Americans will never be safe online from having their
most personal details stealthily scrutinized and sold to the highest bidder,”
said Jeffrey Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy.
Supporters of Tuesday’s repeal vote argued that the privacy regulations stifle
innovation by forcing Internet providers to abide by unreasonably strict
”[Consumer privacy] will be enhanced by removing the uncertainty and confusion
these rules will create,” said Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.), who chairs the
President Trump approved a repeal of FCC rules that protect consumers' online
data from their Internet providers. (Jhaan Elker/The Washington Post)
Policy analysts said the deregulatory effort may be the first of several that
could alter the future of the Internet. Although regulators under President
Barack Obama had moved to limit the power of Internet providers — by
restricting what they could do with customer information and curbing their
ability to block websites or slow down certain types of content — momentum
For example, consumer advocates fear that Congress or the FCC’s new Republican
chairman, Ajit Pai, may seek to roll back the agency’s rules on net neutrality
— the policy that forbids Internet providers from blocking content they don’t
like or charging websites a fee to reach consumers over faster Internet speeds.
Industry analysts said Tuesday that the FCC is also poised to deregulate the
$40-billion-a-year industry for data connections used by hospitals,
Tuesday’s vote is a sign that Internet providers will be treated more
permissively at a time when conservatives control the executive and legislative
branches. That could be a boon for companies such as Verizon and Comcast as
Internet providers have historically made their money from selling access to
the Web. But now these providers are looking to increase their revenue by
tapping the vast troves of data their customers generate as they visit
websites, watch videos, read information and download apps.
Industry backers say that allowing providers to use data-driven targeting could
benefit consumers by leading to more relevant advertisements and innovative
business models. AT&T, for instance, used to offer Internet discounts to
consumers in exchange for letting the company monitor their browsing history.
With Tuesday’s vote, such programs could see a return, and be marketed as a way
to access cheaper Internet — although consumer groups have criticized these
plans as a way for providers to charge customers a premium for their privacy.
Tuesday’s vote took aim at FCC rules that were approved in October over
strident Republican objections. At the time, the agency’s Democratic leadership
argued that consumers deserved the same privacy protections governing legacy
telephone service. As more Americans turn to the Internet to find jobs, do
homework and seek education, the agency said, consumers needed new protections
But industry advocates said the FCC’s rules defined privacy far too broadly.
The industry favors the interpretation of another agency — the Federal Trade
Commission — that does not consider browsing history or app usage data to be
But the FTC does not have the authority to punish Internet providers that
violate its guidelines. That is because of a rule that leaves oversight of
As a result, Tuesday’s vote may release Internet providers from the FCC’s
privacy regulation, but the FTC would also be unable to enforce its own
guidelines on the industry without new authority from Congress.
“One would hope — because consumers want their privacy protected — that they
would be good actors, and they would ask permission and do these nice things,”
said Rep. Mike Doyle (D-Pa.) in a House committee hearing Monday. “But there’s
no law now that says they have to, and there’s no cop on the beat saying, ‘Hey,
Pai, the FCC chairman, called the legislation “appropriate” and blamed his
Democratic predecessor for executive overreach. He also said that
responsibility for regulating Internet providers should fall to the FTC.
“Moving forward, I want the American people to know that the FCC will work with
the FTC to ensure that consumers’ online privacy is protected though a
consistent and comprehensive framework,” Pai said. “The best way to achieve
that result would be to return jurisdiction over broadband providers’ privacy
practices to the FTC, with its decades of experience and expertise in this
Pai has said that his agency could continue to bring lawsuits against firms
that are alleged to have violated consumer privacy, even if the FCC privacy
Republicans just rolled back landmark FCC privacy rules. Here’s what you need
The Senate just voted to undo landmark rules covering your Internet privacy
It's begun: Internet providers are pushing to repeal Obama-era Internet privacy
The FCC just passed sweeping new rules to protect your online privacy
Brian Fung covers technology for The Washington Post, focusing on
telecommunications, Internet access and the shifting media economy. Before
joining The Post, he was the technology correspondent for National Journal and
an associate editor at the Atlantic. Follow him at @b_fung.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
