It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
How Google and Levi’s smart jacket shows what’s coming next for wearables
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Hayley Tsukayama By Hayley Tsukayama  March 14  Follow @htsuka
Google and Levi's showed off this week a new joint project: a $350 smart jean
jacket. While this jacket literally puts tech on your sleeve, it does it in a
subtle way that doesn't require putting another screen on your body. In doing
so, it offers a glimpse of what smart fabrics can do and of the evolution of
the wearables market -- one in which consumers won't have to wear a clunky
The smart Commuter jacket, which was introduced over the weekend at SXSW in
Austin, is aimed at those who bike to work. It has technology woven into its
fibers, and allows users to take phone calls, get directions and check the
time, by tapping and swiping their sleeves. That delivers information to them
through their headphones so that they can keep their eyes on the road without
having to fiddle with a screen. The jacket the should hit stores this fall.
Its smart fibers are washable; they're powered by a sort of smart cufflink that
you'll have to remove when you wash the jacket. The cufflink has a two-day
While the idea of a smart jean jacket may not appeal to everyone (especially on
a hot summer day), the existence of such a jacket is telling about where the
"I think that the commuter jacket from Levi’s is really perfect because it’s
focused on a single consumer audience. It has the cyclist in mind and is
targeting what their needs are," said Sidney Morgan-Petro, retail editor at
She said that what makes the Commuter jacket different from other wearables --
and even other smart clothing -- is that it's not necessarily marketing the
tech as its main feature, but rather using it to solve problems that everyday
people have. Many smartwatches and even other smart clothing can feel like
solutions in search of a problem to solve. The Commuter jacket, she said,
stands out as a type of wearable for a more everyday consumer who may not be
that interested in the tech, but likes the practical features that come with a
Wearables are expected to be a $19 billion industry by 2018, according to
Juniper Research. Products including Fitbit fitness trackers, Android Wear
watches and the Apple Watch have helped fuel a rise in mainstream awareness of
wearables for the past several years, even leading Fitbit to go public in 2015.
But the market for wearables has taken a bit of a tumble in the past few
quarters. Fitbit in January announced it had missed earnings expectations and
starting cutting jobs because sales were lower than expected.
It's hard to say exactly what has caused the cool-down in wearables, but one
possibility is that the market for uber-techy wearables that try to put a
smartwatch on your wrist is pretty saturated. Analysts have pointed to a shift
in the market away from the super-functional smartwatch toward gadgets that are
"Where smartwatches were once expected to take the lead, basic wearables now
reign supreme," Jitesh Ubrani, senior research analyst for the analysis firm
International Data Corporation, said in a December report. "From a design
perspective, many devices are focusing on fashion first while allowing the
The partnership between Google and Levi's speaks to that growing effort between
the technology and fashion industries. Several designers have already partnered
with the likes of Fitbit and Apple to make their wearables more chic and less
geek. Companies including Tommy Hilfiger, Ralph Lauren and Under Armour have
released smart activewear; seeing a brand as old and mainstream as Levi's get
in on the act illustrates just how pervasive the idea has become.
"The retail opportunity is huge," Morgan-Petro said. "We're basically seeing
Hayley Tsukayama covers consumer technology for The Washington Post.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
