It looks like you've previously blocked notifications. Please update your
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
Trump wants to search cellphones at the border. These lawmakers are trying to
Be the first to know about new stories from PowerPost. Sign up to follow, and
we’ll e-mail you free updates as they’re published.
You’ll receive free e-mail news updates each time a new story is published.
By Brian Fung By Brian Fung  April 4  Follow @b_fung
Four U.S. lawmakers are introducing a bill aimed at stopping a spike in digital
searches of Americans' cellphones, laptops and other electronic devices at the
Promising to end a so-called Bermuda Triangle of hazy federal law, the bill
would require border agents to obtain a warrant before searching a U.S.
citizen's electronic devices. It would also require that agents not detain or
prevent citizens from entering the country if they refuse to provide passwords
or passcodes that might enable law enforcement to unlock and view a device's
“Just because you cross the border doesn’t mean the government has a right to
everything on your computer,” Rep. Blake Farenthold (R-Tex.), one of the bill's
sponsors, said Tuesday. The bill's other sponsors are Rep. Jared Polis
(D-Colo.) and Sens. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and Rand Paul (R-Ky.).
[Civil liberties advocates want records on cellphone and laptop searches at
The Trump administration has been considering more aggressive searches of the
digital devices that travelers bring into the United States, which may
particularly affect foreigners, according to the Wall Street Journal. Many
travelers could be forced to reveal their financial data, give access to their
social-media accounts and even show officers their contacts list.
For years, a Supreme Court ruling has granted law enforcement officers greater
leeway to search people — including U.S. citizens — at the border. This “border
exception” to the Fourth Amendment protection against unreasonable search and
seizure is what the new congressional legislation seeks to close.
“Americans’ constitutional rights shouldn’t disappear at the border,” Wyden
The lawmakers' legislation builds on a 2014 ruling by the Supreme Court that
said that in other contexts, such as a normal traffic stop outside the border
region, law enforcement officers must obtain a warrant before searching a
Border searches of cellphones have spiked over the past year. NBC News reports
 that in the final year of President Barack Obama's tenure, agents searched
cellphones at the border some 25,000 times, according to the Department of
Homeland Security. New DHS figures show that the Trump administration is on
pace to exceed that figure, with 5,000 such searches conducted in February
Brian Fung covers technology for The Washington Post, focusing on
telecommunications, Internet access and the shifting media economy. Before
joining The Post, he was the technology correspondent for National Journal and
an associate editor at the Atlantic. Follow him at @b_fung.
SuperFan badge holders consistently post smart, timely comments about
Culture Connoisseurs consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Fact Checkers contribute questions, information and facts to The Fact Checker.
Washingtologists consistently post thought-provoking, timely comments on
events, communities, and trends in the Washington area.
This commenter is a Washington Post editor, reporter or producer.
Post Forum members consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
Weather Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
World Watchers consistently offer thought-provoking, timely comments on
This commenter is a Washington Post contributor. Post contributors aren’t
staff, but may write articles or columns. In some cases, contributors are
Washington Post reporters or editors recommend this comment or reader post.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
To pause and restart automatic updates, click "Live" or "Paused". If paused,
you'll be notified of the number of additional comments that have come in.
Comments our editors find particularly useful or relevant are displayed in Top
Comments, as are comments by users with these badges: . Replies to those posts
Among the criteria for featured comments: likes by users, replies by users,
previous history of valuable commenting, and selection by moderators.
    Why people will keep flying United even if they don’t want to
    Analysis The new White House drug czar has quite an idea for where to put
    Analysis Want to boycott United? Good luck with that.
    Analysis Doctors once treated alcoholism with heroin. Now, they want to
    Why some families who save constantly are still struggling to make ends
Content from Allstate This content is paid for by an advertiser and published
by WP BrandStudio. The Washington Post newsroom was not involved in the
creation of this content. Learn more about WP BrandStudio.
We went to the source. Here’s what matters to millennials.
A state-by-state look at where Generation Y stands on the big issues.
