Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
World Track Cycling Championships 2017: The events explained
Olympic champion Steven Burke will ride for Great Britain in the team pursuit
                    2017 Track Cycling World Championships
Coverage: Live coverage on BBC Two, Red Button, Connected TVs, online and the
Just when you thought you knew your omniums, they go and change the rules.
Cycling's world governing body, the UCI, made a series of change to its track
programme in October, designed to make events more spectator-friendly.
The omnium sees the biggest change, but there are plenty of other tweaks to get
your head around for the 2017 World Track Cycling Championships in Hong Kong
  • Coverage: How to follow the World Championships on the BBC
  • Preview: Kenny absence creates chances for other riders
A mass-start race of 40km (160 laps) for men and 25km (100 laps) for women.
Points are scored in intermediate sprints, which are held every 10 laps, with
five points for the winner followed by three, two and one for the next three
over the line. There are also 20 points on offer for lapping the field.
Tactics vary, with some riders sitting at the back to conserve energy and
contest the intermediate sprints, while others try to gain a lap by breaking
off the front and rejoining the back of the main bunch. The winner is the rider
Perhaps the most confusing track cycling event to follow, the madison - named
after Madison Square Garden in New York, where the event was first held - is
similar to the points race but with teams of two riders.
Women compete in the madison for the first time at a World Championships in
Hong Kong and will race over 30km (120 laps), while the men race 50km (200
Intermediate sprints are held every 10 laps, with five points for the winner
followed by three, two and one for the next three over the line - while these
points are doubled for the final sprint at the end of the race. Teams can also
earn 20 points by gaining a lap on the main bunch.
One rider is always active, while the other continues to ride round, but is
effectively 'resting' at the top of the track. When the active rider needs a
breather, around every lap and a half or so, they 'hand-sling' their partner
into the action. The best madison duos have an endurance rider capable of
With all teams racing at the same time, trying to gain a lap on their rivals or
win sprints, it is quite an impressive spectacle. The team with the most points
at the end of the race is the winner and if there is a draw on points, places
The omnium has had a major overhaul following the Rio 2016 Olympics, changing
from a six-race event over two days to a four-race event held on a single day.
All three individual timed events have been dropped. The new format consists of
four bunch races, with the scratch, elimination and points races retained and a
new event - the tempo race - added. This also means the omnium is now a pure
endurance event instead of a test of sprinting and endurance.
Points are accumulated by riders in the first three events - the scratch, tempo
and elimination races - with 40 points for the winner, 38 for second, 36 for
Each point then won during the final event - the points race - is added to the
rider's points total. The rider with the highest score at the end of the points
  • Scratch race - a 10km (40 lap) race for men and 7.5km (30 lap) race for
    women, where the winner is the first rider over the line.
  • Tempo race - a 10km (40 lap) race for men and 7.5km (30 lap) race for
    women, with sprints conducted every lap after the first five laps. The
    winner of each sprint earns one point and any rider who gains a lap on the
  • Elimination race - the last rider to cross the finish line every second lap
  • Points race - 25km (100 laps) for men and 20km (80 laps) for women. Same
Olympic champion Katie Archibald will ride in the team pursuit, scratch race,
The men's and women's teams both comprise four riders, racing over 4km. Two
teams are on the track at the same time, one starting on the back straight, one
on the home straight. The rules are simple - complete the distance in the
quickest time possible, or catch your opponents in the final to win.
Drafting is crucial with riders racing millimetres behind each other. The time
is stopped when the front wheel of the third rider crosses the line. This
allows one member of the team to drop out during the race. Qualifying rounds
now feature two teams on the track at once instead of one.
A straight race against the clock over 4km for men and 3km for women. As with
the team pursuit, one rider starts on the back straight, one on the home
straight but they are competing against the clock rather than each other.
The quickest two riders in qualifying contest the final, where to win you must
catch the other rider or be first to complete the distance.
The men's race is a three-lap, three-rider team time trial. After each lap, one
rider drops out, leaving one man to race the final lap on his own. The women's
The quickest eight teams in qualifying proceed to the first competition round
and the fastest two teams from that round compete against each other in the
final for the gold medal, with the next two fastest going through to race for
To qualify for the knockout rounds, riders must complete a 200m flying lap in
the fastest time possible, with 28 now progressing instead of 24 at previous
The four fastest athletes skip the 1/16 final - which consists of 12 races - to
move straight into the 1/8 final, which consists of eight races. These races
are 750m long but only the final 200m are timed, with the winner being the
The 1/16 and 1/8 finals are straight knockouts, but the races become
best-of-three contests from the quarter-finals onwards.
The knockout races tend to feature slow, tactical starts, followed by a
frenetic finish as two riders race against each other with the first to cross
the line winning - the perceived advantage being that the rider coming from
behind can draft, using less energy and thus have a better chance of being
The men race over 15km, the women 10km - the simplest of races. There are no
intermediate sprints or points to be won. The winner is the first rider to
Developed in Japan for gambling purposes, the keirin is a tactical race that
starts behind a motorised bike, called a derny, which gradually increases its
pace to about 50km/h for men and 45km/h for women, until it pulls off to signal
The format has been tweaked following controversy in Rio 2016 men's final - won
by Britain's Jason Kenny - which had to be restarted twice due to
The race is now 1.5km (six laps) in total, instead of 2km, but the sprint
distance has been increased from two and a half laps to three laps.
Riders now also have to stay behind the leading edge of the front wheel of the
derny - rather than the rear edge of the rear wheel - before the pacer pulls
A 1km race for the men (also known at the kilo) and 500m for the women, with
Qualifying rounds see two riders on the track at the same time, with the top
eight going through. In the finals, each rider competes alone and the quickest
    Read more on Track Cycling World Championships
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Button set to replace Alonso at Monaco
    Read more on Track World Championships: Laura Kenny absence creates chance
  • Track Cycling World Championships on the BBC plus list of GB medallists
    Read more on UCI World Track Cycling Championships 2017: BBC TV and online
    Read more on Sport on the BBC: The best of this week's action
    New companions, new monsters and the return of an old foe
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
