Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
Masters 2017: Serene Sergio Garcia may have unlocked the secret to winning
Masters 2017: Why Sergio Garcia's win was so special
Serenity was a word that sprang to mind throughout the epic Masters that
The 37-year-old broke through thanks to an apparent inner peace that enabled
him to cope with all that Augusta and the elements could throw at him.
Whether it was the gusty winds of the first two days or the intimidating
last-day surge of Justin Rose as he collected a hat-trick of front-nine
birdies, Garcia remained unperturbed in becoming the only man to be sub-par in
It is a state of mind that was beyond the Spaniard in pretty much all of his
"I felt very calm," Garcia said during his champion's news conference. "I felt
  • 'Amazing to join idols Ballesteros and Olazabal'
Sitting there in his newly won Green Jacket, it seemed Garcia had finally found
the secret - a key to unlock the major puzzle. And it could equip him well in
his quest to ensure he does not become a one-hit wonder at major level.
This was particularly apparent when he recounted the events of the par-five
13th in his final round on Sunday. He had bogeyed the 10th and 11th and now his
drive caught a tree and dropped into an unplayable position beneath a bush.
Commentating on BBC Radio 5 live, I suggested we were witnessing another major
implosion from a player burdened by a suffocating desire to land the most
How wrong can one be? Garcia's response, to conjure a par before going birdie
"In the past, I would have started going at my caddie," Garcia admitted. "And
oh, you know, why doesn't it go through [the tree's branches] and whatever.
"But I was like, well, if that's what is supposed to happen, let it happen.
Let's try to make a great five here and see if we can put in a hell of a finish
Sergio Garcia shakes hands with Padraig Harrington after the latter wins the
Garcia lost the 2007 Open to Padraig Harrington in a play-off - the first of
"And if not, we'll shake Justin's hand and congratulate him for winning.
"So I think I did that very well throughout the whole week, and it's something
I need to keep improving and keep getting better at it."
If he is able to regularly harness this new outlook, he will become a
A better mental attitude would work in tandem with impressive physical
conditioning that shows no sign of deterioration. Garcia had played 71
That speaks volumes for his longevity and consistency at the top of the game
despite several relative troughs before this standout peak in his career graph.
Now he is entitled to feel as though he can swiftly become a multiple major
champion in the way Padraig Harrington did a decade ago.
Garcia was twice the fall-guy when the Irishman claimed his three crowns,
starting with victory in 2007 at Carnoustie, where the Spaniard narrowly missed
Harrington retained his Open crown at Birkdale a year later before beating
Garcia to the PGA title at Oakland Hills the following month.
Garcia celebrates winning the famed Green Jacket with his fiancee Angela Akins
This year the Open returns to Birkdale and the Masters champion can draw on
another piece of history to fuel his hopes of snatching the Claret Jug.
In 1998, Mark O'Meara, who was four years older than Garcia is now, claimed his
first major with a thrilling Masters triumph. Later that year he went to the
Whether Garcia can emulate such a feat is subject to many factors - the form of
rivals, the state of his game and how the draw is affected by seaside weather.
But there is no doubt he is better equipped to deal with the mental tests that
Already a winner of the Players' Championship, Garcia has now won at every
Masters 2017: Rickie Fowler & Matt Kuchar feature in shots of the tournament
That might be it for him. Darren Clarke found a similar serenity to win the
Yet Garcia, I sense, is more likely to kick on from this triumph and find ways
to retain this successful state of mind. If he does, prepare for some thrilling
jousts against Dustin Johnson, Rory McIlroy and, yes, Sunday's runner-up Rose.
The Englishman, no doubt, feels this was a Masters that got away. His missed
putts on the 13th and 17th let open the door to major glory, which Garcia was
It was a thrilling and memorable Masters and one that may leave quite a legacy.
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Button set to replace Alonso at Monaco
    Read more on Podcast: 'Garcia won the Masters in style'
    Read more on Masters 2017: Sergio Garcia pips Justin Rose to win at Augusta
    Read more on Sergio Garcia: Masters winner delighted to join idols
    Read more on Masters 2017: Justin Rose positive on Augusta hopes after
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
