Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
Britain beat Croatia 2-1 in February, but are underdogs for the tie against
Great Britain have named an unchanged Fed Cup team of Johanna Konta, Heather
Watson, Laura Robson and Jocelyn Rae for their tie against Romania.
Britain travel to the Black Sea city of Constanta for the World Group II
They are looking to return to the elite level of the competition for the first
time since 1993, but will go into the tie as heavy underdogs.
Britain set up the tie with a 2-1 victory over Croatia in February.
World number five Simona Halep was named in Romania's squad, alongside
Irina-Camelia Begu, Monica Niculescu and Sorana Cirstea.
Konta, who claimed the biggest title of her career at the Miami Open earlier in
April, is the highest-ranked British female at number seven in the world.
"Romania have a first-class team and will have home advantage on their best
surface. We are very much the underdogs," British captain Anne Keothavong said.
"But we have an excellent team spirit with lots of combined Fed Cup experience
and Johanna is playing the best tennis of her career."
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Button set to replace Alonso at Monaco
    How to get into tennis - a sport on the up in the UK. Find your nearest
    This week's sport on the BBC includes coverage of the World Track Cycling
    Championships, the Bahrain Grand Prix and the Champions League.
    Tennis notifications, live guide and social media
    Get the latest tennis headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our
    newsletter and learn where to find us on online.
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
