Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
Aldershot runners' deaths: Soldier Michael Casey jailed
    These are external links and will open in a new window
    These are external links and will open in a new window
    http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-hampshire-39587564
    These are external links and will open in a new window
Lucy Pygott, 17 and Stacey Burrows, 16, Image copyright Family handout/Martin
Duff Image caption Lucy Pygott (left), 17, and Stacey Burrows, 16, were members
of of Aldershot, Farnham and District Athletic Club
A soldier who was over the alcohol limit and speeding when he killed two
Stacey Burrows, 16, and Lucy Pygott, 17, were out training in Aldershot,
Hampshire, when they were run over by Michael Casey on 8 November.
He admitted causing their deaths by dangerous driving.
Casey, 24, said he had been distracted because a colleague had been sick in his
Winchester Crown Court heard the soldier had been driving his black Ford Focus
at 40mph in a 30mph zone near his barracks and had been looking at his
colleague's vomit in the moments before hitting the girls.
Casey, of St Paul's Road, Tottenham, London, said he then looked up to see a
red traffic light at the crossing and "felt" a collision and saw the two girls
The court heard a friend who was on the crossing in Queen's Avenue with the
girls had shouted at them to run when he realised the car was not going to
Image copyright PA Image caption Michael Casey appeared at Winchester Crown
Lucy, who was from Hartley Wintney, Hampshire, had won a 3,000m bronze medal at
the European Youth Championships in July while Stacey, from Farnborough, was
In an impact statement read to the court, Lucy's mother, Lisa Pygott, said: "Mr
Casey has broken our precious family, we are lost without Lucy.
"The British army trains soldiers to kill - Mr Casey killed with his loaded
Mrs Pygott described seeing her daughter's bloodied body after the crash and
said: "That image traumatises me, it will stay with me until I die. No parent
should ever have to see their innocent blameless child pointlessly killed."
Stacey's father, Lee, told the court he had just dropped his daughter off at
He said: "I heard a loud bang and screams and ran down the steps frantically
looking for Stacey only to be stopped by one of the parents who told me, 'it's
"Then I saw Stacey lying in the road with people trying to help her. I felt I
died with Stacey that night, I cried with fear and I froze with shock."
Casey, who pleaded guilty to two counts of causing death by dangerous driving,
His six-year jail term means he should be released on licence after three
As the sentence was announced, Stacey's mother shouted from the public gallery:
"I do not get my daughter back in three years, do I?"
    Judge 'understands trauma' of Aldershot teenagers' deaths
    Aldershot deaths: Minute's silence held by runners before race
    Aldershot deaths: Family mourns 'perfect' teenage runner
    Soldier arrested after two teenage runners fatally hit by car
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external Internet sites
Syria's President Assad says reports of a chemical attack by his forces were
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
