Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
Borussia Dortmund attack: Iraqi suspect 'linked to IS'
    These are external links and will open in a new window
    These are external links and will open in a new window
    http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-39587161
    These are external links and will open in a new window
German police in Karlsruhe, outside federal prosecutor's office, 12 Apr 17 
Image copyright AFP Image caption The Federal Prosecutor's Office in Karlsruhe
German prosecutors say they have no evidence so far linking a man held over the
bomb attack against the Borussia Dortmund team bus to the crime.
But they have requested an arrest warrant to keep the 26-year-old Iraqi
The man, identified only as Abdul Beset A, is suspected of membership in an
Three devices exploded on Tuesday as Borussia Dortmund footballers were
Media captionDortmund midfield Sahin gives emotional interview about bus bomb
Spain international Marc Bartra underwent an operation after breaking a bone in
The suspect is accused of leading an IS command unit in Iraq in 2014, and of
The German prosecutors say he travelled to Turkey, and then to Germany in early
2016, while maintaining contact with IS jihadists.
He is due to appear in court later on Thursday, and is expected to be formally
A 28-year-old German man is also under suspicion, but has not been arrested.
The Champions League match between Borussia Dortmund and Monaco went ahead a
day after the bombing, at Signal Iduna Park in Dortmund.
Dortmund lost 3-2 at home, in the quarter-final first leg match.
Afterwards, Borussia Dortmund manager Thomas Tuchel said his club felt
"completely ignored" over the rescheduling of the match.
"We would have liked more time to take stock," he said.
Three identical letters claiming responsibility were found at the blast scene.
Investigators say they are not typical of IS claims - for example, they do not
The blast radius of Tuesday's attack was about 100m (330ft). Prosecutors said
it was lucky the casualties were not worse. A policeman was also injured.
The devices contained bits of metal and one shard embedded itself in a headrest
Dortmund police say the fans' behaviour has been exemplary. Many Dortmund fans
offered accommodation to Monaco fans, because of the match postponement.
    Borussia Dortmund: Thomas Tuchel says club 'ignored' over Monaco tie
    Dortmund explosions: 'Islamist' suspect held over team bus attack
Syria's President Assad says reports of a chemical attack by his forces were
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
