Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
Middlesex refuse to back rule change for ECB's city-based Twenty20 plan
Middlesex reached the quarter-finals of last season's T20 Blast
Middlesex have become the first county to refuse to support a rule change that
would pave the way for a new city-based Twenty20 competition planned for 2020.
England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) rules need to be altered to allow the
removal of the right of all 18 counties to play in the new tournament.
The changes require the support of 31 out of 41 of the ECB's voting members.
"The financial impact on Middlesex is still very uncertain and contains great
"Whilst Middlesex is fully supportive of the creation of a new T20 tournament
to drive the future of the game, we are unable to support this proposal at the
"Middlesex has a unique position in playing at a ground [Lord's] that is likely
to be a host venue at the tournament, yet not benefiting from the revenues
"We welcome the ECB's commitment to a further revision to its articles to
provide the protections that we require but, until these commitments become
legally binding, we cannot support the current change of articles of
The 41 voting members comprise the 18 first-class counties, 21 recreational
boards, the Minor Counties Cricket Association, and MCC - owners of Lord's and
A number of counties have come out in support of the proposals for the new
tournament, with Derbyshire, Leicestershire, Somerset, Sussex and Yorkshire all
announcing that they will back the ECB rule change, while others including
Glamorgan, Hampshire and Warwickshire have been vocal in their support for a
Kent have asked their members and supporters to give them further feedback
before making a decision, while Surrey director of cricket Alec Stewart has
expressed concern over the details of the new event.
  • Eight new teams playing 36 games over a 38-day summer window, with four
  • All games televised, with significant free-to-air exposure
  • No scheduling overlap with the existing T20 Blast competition
  • An Indian Premier League-style play-off system to give more incentive for
  • A players' draft, with squads of 15 including three overseas players
    Read more on Test Match Special: Clips and Podcast
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Button set to replace Alonso at Monaco
    Read more on City-based Twenty20 tournament moves a step closer as ECB
    Read more on County Championship 2017: Durham and champions Middlesex set
    Read more on Twenty20: Surrey's Alec Stewart concerned at plans for
    Read more on Ashley Giles: City-based T20 is cricket's Brexit, says Bears
    Read more on Jacques Rudolph: Glamorgan captain backs ECB's new T20 plans
    Analysis and opinion from the BBC's cricket correspondent.
    England's Joe Root and BBC cricket correspondent Jonathan Agnew
    BBC Test Match Special returns in May with live radio commentary from
    England's two one-day internationals against Ireland.
    Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our
    newsletter and learn where to find us on online.
    How to get into cricket - physical exertion with a chess-like element in
    matches which range from half an hour to five days.
    Notifications, social media and more with BBC Sport
    Follow your team with wicket alerts, sign up to news alerts or our
    newsletter and where to find us on social media.
    How to get into cricket - physical exertion with a chess-like element in
    matches which range from half an hour to five days.
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
