Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
Jenson Button set to replace Fernando Alonso for McLaren at Monaco Grand Prix
Button and Alonso have three world championship titles between them
Britain's Jenson Button looks set to replace Fernando Alonso at McLaren for the
Alonso will miss Monaco to race in the Indianapolis 500, with full support from
McLaren executive director Zak Brown says two-time champion Alonso's
But there is no other serious option than Button, 37, who is contracted to
McLaren as a reserve driver and will race barring unexpected circumstances.
The 2009 world champion retired from Formula 1 at the end of last season and
has spent the winter in California training for Ironman triathlons, his
He signed a contract with McLaren last autumn that committed him to replacing
any race driver who was not able to take part in a grand prix this year.
As part of that contract, the team also has an option on signing him to race in
  • Button disqualified from Ironman competition for speeding
Button tweeted a jokey reaction on Wednesday after the news of Alonso's Indy
programme was announced, asking: "Why do I have so many missed calls?"
Meanwhile, Brown told a Bahrain news conference, held to discuss Alonso's Indy
programme, that "conversations were ongoing" over the Spaniard's replacement.
Alonso struggled to keep his McLaren in contention in China recently and
"We have a few different options, we will state who that is when we know," he
"Eric [Boullier], who runs the F1 team, is ultimately responsible for making
the recommendation as to what driver should go in the car and I think he will
be here at the weekend so I can save questions for him, he is working on it.
"I wouldn't want to share the conversations he has had with whom."
Button's compatriot and former team-mate, Mercedes driver Lewis Hamilton, said:
"I hope Jenson comes back and it will be great for the sport if Jenson comes
"Jenson is still one of the best drivers in the world and his calibre and
Hamilton and Button drove together at McLaren between 2010 and 2012.
Button is the only serious alternative McLaren have. Alonso is one of the top
three or four drivers in the world and they need an experienced replacement for
a race where they have one of their best chances of the season to score decent
The McLaren chassis is quite strong, but the car is being let down by its Honda
engine, which is said to be at least 100bhp down on the best in F1.
Monaco is one of the tracks on the calendar where engine power is least
important in determining lap time. Alonso finished fifth there last year, when
On top of that, there are very few available drivers with the required level of
Mexican Esteban Gutierrez and Brazil's Felipe Nasr both raced last year and are
potentially free, but are non-starters for a team such as McLaren needing to
And Button's deal was struck with exactly this sort of situation in mind.
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Highlights & report: GB's Latham wins World Championship bronze
Read more on Highlights & report: GB's Latham wins World Championship bronze
    Read more on Fernando Alonso: McLaren driver to miss Monaco Grand Prix for
    Read more on Grands Prix-style events on English roads get go-ahead
    Analysis and opinion from the BBC's chief Formula 1 writer.
    Formula 1 notifications, live guide and social media
    Get the latest results and headlines sent straight to your phone, find all
    our Formula 1 coverage details with our Live Guide, sign-up to our
    newsletter and learn where to find us on online.
    New companions, new monsters and the return of an old foe
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
