Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
Track Cycling World Championships: Chris Latham takes bronze in scratch race
Great Britain's Chris Latham won a bronze medal in the men's scratch race at
The 23-year-old earned GB's second medal of the Hong Kong championships
following Elinor Barker's silver medal in the women's scratch on Wednesday.
Latham emerged from the pack to take bronze as he chased down Adrian Teklinski
of Poland, who won gold, and Lucass Liss of Germany, who got silver.
In the men's team pursuit, GB were beaten to the bronze medal by Italy.
"I am really happy to come away with a medal, finally," Latham told the BBC.
"I wasn't sure that Teklinski was going to hold on there.
"I was in a decent position most of the time. I followed the Irish rider Felix
  • Follow World Track Cycling Championships on the BBC
Elsewhere Britain's sole rider in the men's keirin, Joe Truman, was outclassed
in his semi-final, having tried to take the race out with two laps to go.
And in the women's team pursuit, GB finished fifth in the heats and failed to
"Latham had a fantastic final charge. He timed his effort well there.
"We hardly saw him in the race, he monitored things but that's why. He was
waiting for that final sprint. And what a ride that was for him.
"But with three laps to go, I would not have said that Teklinski would make it,
but he found something from somewhere to just hang on there.
"More than 2km out, he effectively started to sprint. It will take him some
"I don't think that would be expected. It's the kind of event you can never be
"But if you ride sensibly, which he did, he positioned himself very well and
didn't waste any energy in the first part of the race.
"He marked the danger men and clearly had the legs for the sprint at the end.
That's fantastic, a really great result for him and the team."
GB qualified in fifth for the women's team pursuit and brought in Elinor Barker
Team pursuit Olympic gold medallist Elinor Barker came into the quartet of
The young squad were unable to compete for a medal but Barker remained positive
She told the BBC: "It's the first Worlds for all of these girls and it's made
"The level is so high already physically and technically. We have so much scope
"Four years until Tokyo and we've just come fifth at the Worlds."
Double Olympic gold medallist Joanna Rowsell Shand said on BBC TV: "Coming into
the competition, I don't think anyone expected them to medal.
"Until Elinor Barker joined the team today, we had four brand new riders. With
an average age of 19, they've all got bright futures ahead of them."
Katy Marchant and coach Jan van Eijden on Thursday
Earlier in the day, Olympic bronze medallist Katy Marchant was eliminated from
The 24-year-old, who claimed bronze behind Kristina Vogel of Germany and fellow
Briton Becky James at Rio 2016, was the only female sprinter to travel to Hong
The former heptathlete qualified in 16th place but was ousted by 17th-fastest
Marchant is scheduled to compete in two more events - Saturday's 500m
"I'm really disappointed. I feel like I'm just missing a little bit of zing,
which is something that coming off Rio is to be expected," she said.
"I didn't get the roar when I got the number on my back today - maybe the fact
it's not an Olympic Games or something in the back of my mind telling me that
"I know to get knocked out in the first round is not what we expect from a
medallist, but the preparation coming into this competition is about the
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Button set to replace Alonso at Monaco
    Read more on Track Cycling World Championships: Elinor Barker pipped for
    Read more on World Track Cycling Championships 2017: The events explained
    Read more on Track World Championships: Laura Kenny absence creates chance
  • Track Cycling World Championships on the BBC plus list of GB medallists
    Read more on UCI World Track Cycling Championships 2017: BBC TV and online
    Dame Sarah Storey on the way to winning gold at the Rio Paralympics
    Road, track, BMX, mountain and many more. There are so many reasons to Get
    Latest cycling news from BBC Radio 5 live's cycling experts.
    Catch up with BBC Radio 5 live's cycling podcast and watch their iPlayer
    Got a big cycling race coming up? Make sure you make the most of your warm
    This week's sport on the BBC includes coverage of the World Track Cycling
    Championships, the Bahrain Grand Prix and the Champions League.
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
