Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
Kevin Sinfield: Leeds Rhinos legend 'would love' return to club
Kevin Sinfield helped Leeds Rhinos to seven Grand Final wins
Leeds Rhinos legend Kevin Sinfield says he sees himself returning to the club
Sinfield, 36, is the all-time record points scorer for the Rhinos and left
after helping them to a domestic treble in the 2015 season.
In August he was appointed rugby director by the Rugby Football League.
"At some stage, I'd like to think I'd go back. I've been associated with the
club since I was 13 years old," he told BBC Sport.
"The club means a great deal to me and I've probably got to sit on the fence a
bit more with the job I have at the RFL, but it's still my club and to try and
dispute that or play it down is not something I'd want to do.
"I'd love to be back there at some stage, I'm not sure when that would be. I
don't have any concrete plans going forward, we'll see what opportunities arise
The former Rhinos and England captain rejected the chance to join Brian
McDermott's coaching staff at Headingley last season after he retired from
playing with rugby union side Yorkshire Carnegie and said in September he did
    Read more on BBC Leeds & West Yorkshire News & Sport
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Button set to replace Alonso at Monaco
    Read more on Kevin Sinfield: Ex-Leeds Rhinos captain appointed as RFL rugby
    Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our
    newsletter and learn where to find us on online.
    Enjoy the best debate, analysis and interviews with BBC 5 live and World
    How to get into rugby league - a crowd-pleasing, physically demanding game
    This week's sport on the BBC includes coverage of the World Track Cycling
    Championships, the Bahrain Grand Prix and the Champions League.
    New companions, new monsters and the return of an old foe
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
