Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
Antoine Griezmann: Man Utd target should stay at Atletico Madrid - Fernando
Torres and Griezmann have scored a combined 31 goals for Atletico this season
                  Fernando Torres interview - Football Focus
Date: Saturday, 15 April Time: 12:00 BST Coverage: Watch on BBC One and online
Antoine Griezmann has "the world in his hands" at Atletico Madrid and does not
need to leave the La Liga side to become a legend, says Fernando Torres.
The France forward has been strongly linked with Manchester United.
Ex-Liverpool striker Torres told BBC Football Focus he faced a similar juncture
before a -L-50m move to Chelsea in 2011, but insists the 26-year-old can
"Where are you going to go to improve what you have in Atletico?" he said.
"Not many places in the world. I hope he can stay with us forever."
Griezmann scored his 24th goal of the season for Atletico as Diego Simeone's
side beat Leicester City 1-0 in the Champions League quarter-final first leg at
Torres, back at the club where he began his career, says it is no wonder
"That's normal when young players become one of the best in the world, everyone
"You can go to many other places in the world and they cannot offer what
Atletico can offer you right now: competing in the league, competing in the
Champions League, one of the most respected teams in Europe - so there is no
Griezmann has scored eight goals in his last 10 games for club and country
Torres was the same age as Griezmann, who has yet to win a major trophy, is now
when he decided he had to leave Anfield to further his career.
"He's 26, which is a very good age to develop your game and to decide if you
want to be a good player or a top player," explained Torres.
"We were in the Champions League final [last season], he played in the Euro
final with France, so I think he realises how difficult it is to become
Torres spent three and a half prolific years with Liverpool, but it was at
Stamford Bridge the former Spain international enjoyed greater team success;
winning the Champions League, Europa League and FA Cup.
"Talking about Griezmann, I was in that situation where I wanted to be the best
and I wanted to go to a team who give me the tools to become the best," said
"The situation was different because when Rafa [Benitez] left and [Javier]
Mascherano left and [Xabi] Alonso left, all the promises the owners made to the
"I had everything at Liverpool. But then they sell the best players, the
"We were not building a team to win. That was the reality, the situation
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Button set to replace Alonso at Monaco
    Read more on Craig Shakespeare: Leicester boss says Atletico Madrid penalty
    Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our
    newsletter and learn where to find us on online.
    The latest rumours and stories from around the world of football.
    Enjoy the best debate, analysis and interviews with 5 live and World
    Service football plus our commentary listings.
    How to get into football - the most popular sport in the world, with clubs
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
