Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
Rangers: Dave King faces legal action after defying takeover ruling on share
King led a successful boardroom takeover at Ibrox in 2015
Rangers chairman Dave King faces a legal fight after defying an order to make
an offer for all shares in the club's holding company.
The Takeover Appeal Board (Tab) ruled last month that King had "worked in
concert" with three others to take control at Ibrox in 2015.
King did not meet Wednesday's deadline to make an offer of 20p per share.
Tab has now petitioned the Court of Session in Edinburgh in a bid to have its
King could also face "financial cold shouldering", which means no city
investors or institutions are allowed to deal with him.
  • Tab ruling explained - Ibrox control setback for King
At the time of last month's ruling, King said he did not agree with the
findings or the share price, saying that, even if he proceeded with an offer,
it would be rejected by an "overwhelming majority of RIFC's shareholders".
The Tab ruling said King, along with George Letham, George Taylor and Douglas
Park, had acted as a "concert party" to acquire shares in Rangers International
Football Club, rather than acting as an individual.
It said he was therefore required to make an offer to buy all the shares in the
There are approximately 87 million RIFC shares, with King, Letham, Taylor and
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Button set to replace Alonso at Monaco
    Read more on Scottish Premiership post-split: Ross County play extra away
    Read more on Hearts: Ann Budge backs Ian Cathro and insists Craig Levein
    Read more on Kenny Shiels urges Scottish football to move to summer season
    Read more on Scottish Premiership Predictor: Play now
    Scottish football news and interviews, Thu 13 Apr, 18:30 BST, BBC Radio
    Scottish Premiership, Fri 14 Apr, 19:45 BST, BBC Radio Scotland (MW)
    The most petty and ill-informed football show on radio, Sat 15 Apr, 12:05
    SPFL, Sat 15 Apr, from 14:00 BST, BBC Radio Scotland (FM)
    Scottish football round-up, Sat 15 Apr, 16:30 BST, BBC One Scotland
    Scottish Championship, Sat 15 Apr, 17:15 BST, BBC Alba
    More football related laughs, Sat 15 Apr, 17:30 BST, BBC Radio Scotland
    Scottish Premiership, Sun 16 Apr, 12:30 BST, BBC Radio Scotland
    The stories on the back pages of today's Scottish newspapers
    Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our
    newsletter and learn where to find us on online.
    Analysis and opinion from BBC Scotland's chief sports writer.
    Jonathan Sutherland introduces highlights of the weekend's matches in the
    Football podcast with news, debate and analysis
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
