Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
Joanna Rowsell Shand: British Cycling 'one of the best' with equality
Jo Rowsell Shand, Elinor Barker, Laura Trott and Katie Archibald
Joanna Rowsell Shand (right) won Olympic gold at the Rio Olympics alongside
Two-time Olympic champion Joanna Rowsell Shand says British Cycling is "one of
the best" governing bodies in the world at promoting equality despite the
British Cycling has been accused of bullying and sexism towards athletes and is
Rowsell Shand said: "My experience of British Cycling did not reflect that."
But, the Briton said she "did not want to dismiss anybody's accusations" and
  • British Cycling "would never sacrifice medals for welfare"
  • British Cycling chairman apologises after bullying & doping claims
  • British Cycling is 'elite sport, not day care'
Last year she said she was "surprised" London 2012 Olympian Jess Varnish
claimed British Cycling's technical director Shane Sutton made sexist comments
Rowsell Shand won Olympic gold in the team pursuit in 2012 and 2016 before
"The sport of cycling internationally still has some huge inequalities between
men and women - and that is the same across many sports," she told BBC Sport.
"But I think British Cycling is probably one of the best governing bodies in
the world at trying to promote equality between men and women.
"We would not have won what we won if we had not had the support from British
Cycling so for me I honestly feel that my medal was worth the same as the men's
An independent review into the culture at British Cycling was launched last
year after ex-riders complained about their treatment.
British Cycling published a 39-point action plan last month to address the
draft findings of the investigation and started work on the development of a
"No organisation is perfect but I think you should strive for perfection,"
"British Cycling have already done a 39-point plan of areas they want to
However, Rowsell Shand reiterated that her support for British Cycling does not
mean that she thinks the accusations are not serious.
"I think if somebody feels that they've been bullied it's very easy for
somebody else to think it was just banter, but I think these things should be
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Button set to replace Alonso at Monaco
    Read more on British Cycling to introduce a code of conduct in response to
    Read more on Sir Chris Hoy: Six-time Olympic champion defends British
    Read more on British Cycling chairman apologises after bullying & doping
    Read more on Joanna Rowsell Shand: Double Olympic gold medallist retires
    Read more on Jess Varnish: Joanna Rowsell Shand defends British Cycling
    Dame Sarah Storey on the way to winning gold at the Rio Paralympics
    Road, track, BMX, mountain and many more. There are so many reasons to Get
    Latest cycling news from BBC Radio 5 live's cycling experts.
    Catch up with BBC Radio 5 live's cycling podcast and watch their iPlayer
    Got a big cycling race coming up? Make sure you make the most of your warm
    This week's sport on the BBC includes coverage of the World Track Cycling
    Championships, the Bahrain Grand Prix and the Champions League.
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
