Search the BBC [                    ] Search the BBC 
Newport Gwent Dragons: Meeting over region's future set for 9 May
Newport Gwent Dragons, Newport RFC and Newport County FC all currently play at
The meeting to decide the future of the Welsh Rugby Union (WRU) takeover of
Newport Gwent Dragons has been set for Tuesday, 9 May.
The WRU proposed the takeover deal which includes the Rodney Parade ground and
needs to be ratified by 75 per cent of Newport RFC shareholders.
Benefactor Tony Brown has written an open letter advocating the deal.
The shareholders have been given a sheet that provides information of the
Dragons chief executive Stuart Davies said: "Following the WRU announcement, we
wished to engage as quickly as possible with key stakeholders for initial
"Within a week, we had met with both sets of supporters' groups and sponsors,
with the assurance that much more information was to follow. In turn, the
documents being prepared have been further informed by the discussions at those
"They are considered documents designed to deal openly and unambiguously with
"I hope they will assist everyone with their understanding of our position and
the proposal, as well as ensuring that shareholders are able to make an
The question and answer document provided to the shareholders provides answers
Martyn Hazell is currently chairman of Newport Gwent Dragons and is part of the
Major benefactor Brown said in his letter to shareholders he had initially
invested -L-4m into the club after his association started with 1997 which was
turned into shares and written off when he initially left the board.
After returning to the board, Brown claims he and Martyn Hazell put in an extra
-L-5.5m to 'keep the Newport Gwent Dragons and Newport afloat.'
Brown said the deal proposed was the only option to keep the two rugby sides at
"We have not reached this conclusion by chance," said Brown.
"It is the product of two years of many challenging Board meetings and
difficult decisions being taken to evolve it to this point, once we accepted
that the current business model was not working and would ultimately fail."
Brown said it was time for himself and Hazell to step aside.
"Both Martyn and myself are over 80 and anxious to cut back on our
Stuart Davies: No Newport Gwent Dragons deal leaves future 'bleak'
"Before doing so, we have explored multiple options while trying to ensure a
successful Dragons, a secure Newport RFC, protection of the venue and the
continuation of professional rugby in Gwent at Rodney Parade.
"The WRU became our preferred option rather than a choice of last resort, and I
believe they are doing this with the best of intentions.
"They are best placed to make a success of the Dragons, and ensure rugby for
"It is a wonderful ground with a great history none of us want to see
"It provides a future for both teams and the possibility for a relationship
that can prosper on its new footing. It is my parting wish we are able to
"To turn down the WRU proposals would very sadly mean the end of rugby at
(top left to bottom right) Eden Hazard, Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Harry Kane, N'Golo
Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Sportsday - PFA shortlists & Premier League news conferences
Read more on Button set to replace Alonso at Monaco
    Read more on 'Alternatives to WRU Dragons takeover,' say Friends of Newport
    Read more on Newport Gwent Dragons: 'More work' needed to seal takeover
    Read more on Newport Gwent Dragons chairman Martyn Hazell says WRU takeover
    How to get into rugby union - into the thick of the 15-player game or try
    rugby sevens, which made its Olympic debut in 2016.
    Get latest scores and headlines sent straight to your phone, sign-up to our
    newsletter and learn where to find us on online.
    Enjoy the best debate, analysis and interviews with BBC 5 live and World
    Service plus our rugby union commentary listings.
    This week's sport on the BBC includes coverage of the World Track Cycling
    Championships, the Bahrain Grand Prix and the Champions League.
For more ideas, information and inspiration, visit bbc.co.uk/getinspired
Copyright (C) 2017 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external
sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
